Tropical Storm Gilbert formed in the eastern Caribbean and strengthened into a hurricane Saturday night.
The National Hurricane Center in Miami reported its position at 2 a.m. Sunday at latitude 16.1 north, longitude 67.5 west, about 140 miles south of Ponce, Puerto Rico, and 200 miles southeast of Santo Domingo.
The National Weather Service in San Juan, Puerto Rico, said Gilbert was moving westward at 15 mph with a ``broad area of cloudiness and heavy weather'' rotating around the center of the storm.
Hurricane Gilbert, packing 110 mph winds and torrential rain, moved over this capital city today after skirting Puerto Rico, Haiti and the Dominican Republic.
``Right now it's actually moving over Jamaica,'' said Bob Sheets, director of the National Hurricane Center in Miami.
``It's certainly one of the larger systems we've seen in the Caribbean for a long time,'' said Hal Gerrish, forecaster at the National Hurricane Center.
Forecasters said the hurricane had been gaining strength as it passed over the ocean after it dumped 5 to 10 inches of rain on the Dominican Republic and Haiti, which share the island of Hispaniola.
Heavy rain and stiff winds downed power lines and caused flooding in the Dominican Republic on Sunday night as the hurricane's center passed just south of the Barahona peninsula, then less than 100 miles from neighboring Haiti.
A National Weather Service report said the hurricane was moving west at 17 mph with maximum sustained winds of 115 mph.
``Right now it's actually moving over Jamaica,'' said Bob Sheets, director of the National Hurricane Center in Miami.
Gilbert reached Jamaica after skirting southern Puerto Rico, Haiti and the Dominican Republic.
Hurricane warnings were issued Monday for the south coast of Cuba east of Camaguey, the Cayman Islands, and Haiti, while warnings were discontinued for the Dominican Republic.
The National Hurricane Center said a hurricane watch was in effect on the Texas coast from Brownsville to Port Arthur and along the coast of northeast Mexico from Tampico north.
The National Hurricane Center said Gilbert was the most intense storm on record in terms of barometric pressure.
The hurricane center said Gilbert was the most intense storm on record in terms of barometric pressure, measured at 26.13 inches Tuesday night.
Hurricane Gilbert swept toward Jamaica yesterday with 100-mile-an-hour winds, and officials issued warnings to residents on the southern coasts of the Dominican Republic, Haiti and Cuba.
Forecasters said the hurricane was gaining strength as it passed over the ocean and would dump heavy rain on the Dominican Republic and Haiti as it moved south of Hispaniola, the Caribbean island they share, and headed west.
It's certainly one of the larger systems we've seen in the Caribbean for a long time," said Hal Gerrish, forecaster at the National Hurricane Center in Coral Gables, Fla.
Tropical Storm Gilbert formed in the eastern Caribbean and strengthened into a hurricane Saturday night.