The Association of California Insurance Cos. in Sacramento said that in the San Francisco area roughly 25 to 30 percent of the homes have earthquake insurance.
State Farm said about 25% of its policyholders in California have also purchased earthquake insurance.
Most San Francisco-area homeowners may have to pay for damage from Tuesday's earthquake out of their own pockets, while insurance companies may reap long-term benefits from higher rates, industry spokesmen and analysts said Wednesday.
State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Co., the largest home and auto insurer in California, believes the losses from the earthquake could be somewhat less than the $475 million in damages it expects to pay out for claims resulting from Hurricane Hugo.
Insurers aren't required to offer earthquake insurance to commercial property owners, but the percentage of business property with the coverage is very high, industry spokesmen said.
The Association of California Insurance Companies estimated damage to residential property could total $500 million, but only $100 million to $150 million is insured, it said.
State Farm, based in Bloomington, Ind., is also the largest writer of personal-property earthquake insurance in California.
EARTHQUAKES -- SAN FRANCISCO; EARTHQUAKES -- NORTHERN CALIFORNIA; OAKLAND (CA); DISASTER VICTIMS
But industry observers said they don't expect any company to suffer serious financial damage from quake-related claims.
British, West German, Scandinavian and other overseas insurers are bracing for big claims from the San Francisco earthquake disaster.
Allstate Insurance Co., a unit of Sears, Roebuck & Co., said about 23% of its personal property policyholders -- about 28% in the San Franciso area -- also have earthquake coverage.
Officials from the American Insurance Association's property-claim service division, which coordinates the efforts of the claims adjusters in an area after a natural disaster, will be flying to San Francisco today.
Insurance companies attempted Wednesday to assess the amount of quake-related damages they're likely to have to pay.
Industry analysts predicted insurers would be able to reverse three years of declining rates and win rate hikes from state regulators due to the quake damages and the estimated $4 billion in damages from Hurricane Hugo, which hammered South Carolina and other parts of the southeastern United States earlier this month.
With Congress already moving to grant up to $3 billion in relief, earthquake victims need to know that state officials are prepared to come up with the state's share of disaster and reconstruction aid as soon as possible, and as soon as is practical.
Insurers face the prospect of paying out billions of dollars for damages caused by this week's California earthquake.
In the aftermath of the California earthquake, President Bush and his aides flew into a whirlwind of earthquake-related activity yesterday morning.
The earthquake's toll, including possible deep structural damage, goes far beyond the more easily observed damage from a hurricane, says George Reider, a vice president in Aetna Life & Casualty Insurance Co.'s claims division.
