The blast occurred at at 8:26 a.m. in a lounge in the barracks near Deal, about 70 miles southeast of London, the Defense Ministry said.
One soldier was killed and nine wounded in an IRA attack on an army barracks in north London in August 1988.
After that, the ceiling started to fall down around me,'' said Joan Betteridge, a pensioner in the southern England town of Deal, where the blast at the Royal Marines School of Music occurred.
The Irish Republican Army claimed reponsibilty for the explosion, which police said killed 11 people and injured 22.
An explosion today flattened a military barracks and tore through nearby homes, killing 11 people and injuring 22, police said.
British military installations are a frequent bombing target of the Irish Republican Army in its campaign to rid Northern Ireland of British rule, but today's explosion in the coastal town 70 miles southeast of London was the worst IRA attack on the British mainland in more than seven years.
A statement telephoned to Ireland International, a Dublin news agency, said ``we have visited the Royal Marines in Kent'' in response to Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher's visit to Northern Ireland nine days ago.
One soldier was killed and nine wounded in an IRA bomb attack on an army barracks in north London in August 1988.
The Royal Marines Music School is one of 30 military establishments in Britain that use private security firms, Defense Ministry figures show.
Family members on Saturday grieved for their slain loved ones and criticized the security arrangements at the Royal Marines Music School, where an IRA terrorist attack killed 10 military musicians.
British military installations are a frequent target of the IRA's campaign to end British rule in Northern Ireland and unite the predominantly Protestant province with the mainly Roman Catholic Republic of Ireland.
Prince Philip on Sunday condemned the ``senseless'' killing of 10 Royal Marines musicians in an IRA bombing, and Britain's defense secretary said he warned all military bases of the risk of similar attacks.
The prince, husband of Queen Elizabeth II and captain general of the Royal Marines, visited injured men in the hospital and toured the severely damaged Royal Marines School of Music in Deal, southeast Britain.
British military installations are a frequent target of the Irish Republican Army in its campaign to end British rule in Northern Ireland and unite the predominantly Protestant province with the Roman Catholic Republic of Ireland.
Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher said Monday the Irish Republican Army members who blew up the Royal Marines School of Music and killed 10 bandsmen last week are ``monsters'' who will be found and punished.
The IRA claimed responsibility for the explosion, and police said they are looking for three men with Irish accents who rented a house overlooking the barracks .
The Irish Republican Army claimed responsibility for a huge explosion Friday that reduced a three-story military barracks on the southeast coast of England to rubble, killing 10 people and injuring 22, eight seriously.
Friday's explosion occurred about 8:30 a.m. in a lounge at the Royal Marines School of Music near Deal, on the English Channel in the county of Kent.