The world's largest version of the landmark American fast-food chain rang up 30,000 meals on 27 cash registers, breaking the opening-day record for McDonald's worldwide, officials said.
Photo, COLOR, Crowd gathers for opening of first McDonald's in Soviet Union, where some waited an hour for fast food.
``In fact, this is a clash between the Big Mac and Pljeskavica,'' said Vesna Milosevic, an official of Genex, a Yugoslav state-run enterprise that has contracted a joint venture agreement with McDonald's.
McDonald's hamburgers, fries and golden arches came to China on Monday when the fast-food chain opened its first restaurant in a nation famed for its distinctive cuisine.
McDonald's Hong Kong is a 50-50 joint venture with McDonald's in the United States.
The Belgrade media have suggested that the success of McDonald's in Yugoslavia depends on its acceptance by citizens long accustomed to a hamburger-like fast-food dish called the Pljeskavica: ground pork and onions on a bun.
Hundreds of Chinese waited for hours outside the restaurant in Shenzhen, an economic boom town near Hong Kong, for their first taste of a McDonald's hamburger, fries or shake.
Daniel Ng, chairman of McDonald's Restaurant Shenzhen Ltd., said it took two years to prepare for the restaurant's opening and his ambition now is to serve 10 million burgers a year.
The 500-seat McDonald's restaurant in a three-story building is operated by McDonald's Restaurant Shenzhen Ltd., a wholly owned subsidiary of McDonald's Hong Kong.
``In fact, this is a clash between the Big Mac and Pljeskavica,'' said an official of Genex, Yugoslavia's largest state-run enterprise that will operate the McDonald's.
Communism suffered its first Big Mac attack Thursday as McDonald's opened a restaurant in Yugoslavia, and police were called in to keep customers who lined up for hours from getting too unruly under the golden arches.
McDonald's of Canada Chairman George Cohon, the man behind the deal, said many people were buying multiple orders and the restaurant served 15,000 to 20,000 people in just the first five hours of operation.
Another U.S. fast food outlet, Kentucky Fried Chicken, opened a restaurant in Beijing in 1987, and it now has four outlets there.
Opening the second McDonald's restaurant in Moscow, along with a 12-storey office block, Mr George Cohon, head of McDonald's Canada, could well be described as the Russian authorities' idea of a model investor.
Sadik Seljami, a waiter in a small Pljeskavica outlet just a few hundred yards from the McDonald's, suggested that the American restaurant wants to drive Yugoslav fast-food outlets out of business.
Negotiations have been going on for years for expanding the fast-food chain to the Soviet Union, but no agreement has been announced .
Seven years after the U.S. hamburger giant first tried to bring its Big Macs to South Korea, the golden arches were finally going up.
The joint venture agreement between McDonald's of Canada and the Moscow City Council calls for 20 restaurants, though there is no timetable or even a definite plan for when or where the second McDonald's will open .