Daniel F. Evans, also a law school classmate of Dan Quayle, said he doesn't expect Quayle's national candidacy to change him.
Quayle said he had questioned each of his children about whether he should accept the vice presidential spot if Bush offered it.
Dan Quayle's sister believes the Indiana senator won't let his candidacy for vice president hurt the family life he and his wife, Marilyn, enjoy.
As I said at the start, Dan Quayle is a man I know and trust.
The Quayle family and friends were celebrating Tuesday afternoon after George Bush announced he wants the 41-year-old Indiana senator to be the Republican nominee for vice president.
Dan Quayle has not yet been nominated for vice president and already Republicans are comparing him to Thomas Jefferson and John F. Kennedy.
``In 1960, the American people voted for John F. Kennedy for president and he was the relatively same age as Dan Quayle,'' said Ford.
In an interview with Indiana reporters Monday, the Quayles said they had worried during the vice presidential speculation about the family's loss of privacy during a national campaign.
``I think Dan Quayle, although he's 41 years of age, he's going to send a message to the American people that the Republican Party respects young people who achieve,'' said Sen. Pete Domenici, R-N.M.
Bush, who followed his running mate to the podium, said he was ``proud to have Dan Quayle at my side''.
Neale, who grew up with Marilyn Tucker Quayle in Indianapolis, introduced Dan Quayle to his future wife at a student gathering at the Indiana University law school in the early 1970s.
``John Kennedy had been in the House and Senate 14 years before he was elected president and Dan Quayle's had 12 years''.
We are here to nominate one of the bright young lights in the Republican Party, a man I am proud to say is my colleague, the junior senator from Indiana, Dan Quayle.
Dan Quayle is a dedicated public servant and a devoted family man.
Dan Quayle's vice presidential nomination was supposed to be a triumph for the precocious young Indiana senator, but the dream faded overnight.
It was everything Quayle had hoped for .
Here is a transcript of the speech by Sen. Bob Dole of Kansas nominating Sen. Dan Quayle of Indiana for vice president at the Republican National Convention on Thursday night.
But Dan Quayle's got experience, too.
