Don Shinkle, Wal-Mart's director of corporate and public affairs, attributed Wal-Mart's success to its ``associates'' _ the term for employees first coined in 1972 to stress that all Wal-Mart employees are partners in the company _ and to Sam Walton's leadership and knack for hiring the ``right person at the right time''.
Although Walton built up a small chain of Ben Franklin variety store franchises from 1945, it was not until 1962 that he opened his first Wal-Mart discount store.
In one video, David Glass, who succeeded Sam Walton as chief executive of Wal-Mart in 1988, recalled his impressions after attending the opening of the second Wal-Mart Discount City at Harrison in 1964.
Walton and his brother, Bud, opened the first Wal-Mart Discount City in 1962.
``Sam Walton is more interested in his backhand than he is in his bank account,'' says Don Shinkle, Wal-Mart spokesman.
The seeds of the Wal-Mart empire were sown when Sam and his brother James L., or Bud, opened the first Wal-Mart Discount City in 1962.
'WAL-MART: A HISTORY OF SAM WALTON'S RETAIL PHENOMENON' by Sandra S. Vance and Roy V. Scott Twayne Publishers, New York, Dollars 14.95 240 pages Many people might be said to be the personification of the American Dream; few are better qualified for that title than Sam Walton.
Sam Walton did not invent discount retailing.
``He feels any attention to Sam Walton is to the individual and he prefers attention to Sam Walton (the founder of) the company,'' Shinkle said.
He's ranked as the richest man in the nation by a leading business magazine, but to folks in Bentonville, a town of about 8,700 people, Sam Walton is just another neighbor.
His company, Wal-Mart, made sales of Dollars 55bn last year, and after Walton's death Fortune magazine reported that his wife and four children held between them the second-largest fortune in the world - Dollars 23.5bn.
Sam Walton, founder of the Wal-Mart chain of discount supermarkets who died of cancer in April, negotiated these pitfalls much better than most.
And Wal-Mart Vice Chairman Donald Soderquist recalls that when Walton took his idea of putting discount stores in rural areas to Ben Franklin headquarters in Chicago, officials there ``just really didn't see a future in it''.
Forty years after Sam Walton first hung out his shingle, Walton's 5&10 will reopen to show how a little rural storekeeper built a discount retail empire.
Wal-Mart calls its sales help associates instead of employees.
Glass doesn't hesitate when asked if Wal-Mart can flourish without Sam.
Manager Don Bost remembers one day last summer when a secretary telephoned from Wal-Mart Stores Inc.'s corporate headquarters in Bentonville, Ark. Chairman Sam Walton was about to land at a nearby airport and the secretary asked if someone could fetch him and bring him to the De Soto store.
Wal-Mart Stores Inc.'s Visitors Center opens Wednesday in the same building on the downtown square where Walton first opened for business on May 9, 1950.
