WHILE Hurricane Andrew was wreaking havoc across large parts of southern Florida and Louisiana this week, a grade two dollar crisis (on a one-to-four scale, four being most severe) was blowing itself out at the end of a tumultuous few days for US and world financial markets.
SQUADS of workers fanned out across storm-battered Louisiana yesterday to begin a massive rebuilding effort after Hurricane Andrew had flattened whole districts, killing two people and injuring dozens more, agencies report from Florida and New Orleans.
Although the damage from the hurricane's landfall in Florida on Monday was much greater than initially esti mated, insurers' losses there are likely to total less than Dollars 1bn, well below earlier expectations, a senior member of Lloyd's insurance market said yesterday.
Lord Airlie, the chairman who was addressing an extraordinary shareholders' meeting, said: 'On the basis of emerging information, General Accident advise that the losses to their US operations arising from Hurricane Andrew, which struck Florida and Louisiana, might in total reach the level at which external catastrophe reinsurance covers would become exposed'.
GENERAL ACCIDENT, the leading British insurer, said yesterday that insurance claims arising from Hurricane Andrew could 'cost it as much as Dollars 40m'.
The dollar was not the only story in financial markets this week, and the devastating effect of Hurricane Andrew produced a typically hard-eyed, although nonetheless logical, reaction from Wall Street.
The stocks of those insurance companies with the greatest exposure in southern Florida, the area hit worst by the hurricane, all took a tumble.
The government estimated it would cost Dollars 20bn-Dollars 30bn to tidy and rebuild in Florida, and to care for residents displaced by the storm.
HURRICANE Andrew, claimed to be the costliest natural disaster in US history, yesterday smashed its way through the state of Louisiana, inflicting severe damage on rural communities but narrowly missing the low-lying city of New Orleans.
On Wall Street, most of the damage from the currency storm was inflicted a week ago Friday and on the following Monday, when bond yields jumped sharply and the Dow Jones industrial average plunged by more than 75 points.
DAMAGE CAUSED by Hurricane Andrew could rise to Dollars 20bn, it was estimated yesterday, as one of the costliest US storms this century threatened a further devastating landfall near the city of New Orleans.
The Federal Emergency Management Agency said it was setting aside Dollars 77m to help Louisiana recover.
Louisiana state officials said they had no overall count of storm-related injuries but initial estimates reckoned fewer than 100.
However, local officials in Florida, hit earlier in the week by the hurricane, were critical of what they called a delay in supplying food, drinking water and other supplies for thousands of people in need.
London Page II
Not all damaged property in the area is insured and there have been estimates that the storm caused more than Dollars 20bn of damage.
Ms Kate Hale, director of emergency services in Florida's Dade County, which bore the brunt of the storm, estimated that Andrew had already caused Dollars 15bn to Dollars 20bn (Pounds 7.5bn-Pounds 10bn) of damage.
The dollar put paid to those hopes and, by the middle of this week, it was approaching 7.45 per cent, putting an upward pressure on the all-important mortgage rate for home-buyers.
