Since East Germany overthrew its Communist government last fall and the German borders were opened, Checkpoint Charlie has become as superfluous as the crumbling Berlin Wall.
The border crossing was the scene of stirring escapes and heartbreaking captures as East Germans tried flee to the West, breaking through East German control stations just 20 yards away from the Allied checkpoint.
Checkpoint Charlie, the famed Allied border crossing by the Berlin Wall, was to be hauled away Friday.
East German construction worker Andreas Bratke was working near the wall in January 1986 when he suddenly bolted through the East German checkpoint, down Friedrich Street and through Checkpoint Charlie.
Checkpoint Charlie stood just 20 yards from an East German checkpoint and was the only place between the Berlins that could be crossed on foot by non-Germans.
Secretary of State James A. Baker III, Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze and their colleagues from France, Britain and the two Germanys were to preside over a ceremony marking the checkpoint's removal Friday.
The German and Allied foreign ministers are meeting in East Berlin to discuss the status of the city and a united Germany's role in world affairs.
The proposal was outlined by Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze during international talks in East Berlin on the strategic future of a united Germany.
Berlin has been split into Soviet, U.S., British and France sectors and West Berlin remains technically separate from West Germany.
Soldiers from three nations locked the doors of Checkpoint Charlie today and a crane whisked away the Cold War relic that symbolized a divided world.
Shevardnadze, speaking earlier at a ceremony for the removal of the Western Allies' Checkpoint Charlie, said he wanted the Big Four Powers' troops out of ``greater Berlin'' within six months after unification.
Baker, Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze and the foreign ministers from France, Britain and the two Germanys each heralded the end of the checkpoint as a symbol of change.
A huge crane hung over the small house in the middle of the narrow street that leads to East Berlin, where a sign in English, German, Russian and French says: ``You are now leaving the American sector''.
``I ran as fast as I could,'' he said from his home in West Berlin.
Large sections of the Berlin Wall are being dismantled daily, and U.S. officials decided to time the removal of Checkpoint Charlie with the foreign ministers' meeting.
With huge sections of the Berlin Wall being ripped down daily, U.S. officials decided two weeks ago to remove Checkpoint Charlie.
``For 29 years Checkpoint Charlie embodied the Cold War,'' U.S.
The envoys from the German states and the four World War II Allies that divided them were in East Berlin to discuss the international aspects of German unification.
