He said he agreed with Gorbachev that reunification must be decided not only by East and West Germany, but all of Europe.
He said German reunification ``cannot go ahead'' of the reunification of Europe.
About 20,000 East Germans, many carrying West German flags, demonstrated Saturday for speedy German reunification, the official East German news agency ADN said.
The West German constitution calls for a united Germany, but it has not been a paramount concern of the West Germans in the years since the ruins of Nazi Germany were divided into East and West at the end of World War II.
West German officials and media today praised Soviet President Mikhail S. Gorbachev for softening his view on German reunification and said it could give hope to disheartened East Germans.
He also said German reunification is unlikely as long as West Germany belongs to NATO and East Germany to the Soviet-led Warsaw Pact military alliance .
KOHL, HELMUT; REUNIFICATION; EAST GERMANY -- FOREIGN RELATIONS -- WEST GERMANY; USSR -- FOREIGN RELATIONS -- WEST GERMANY; GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S
There is growing discussion in West Germany about German reunification as a result of sweeping social and political reforms underway in East Germany.
According to Tass, the Soviet leader said any action on reunification must not infringe on the interests of either East or West Germany, the four Allied powers: France, Britain, the United States or the Soviet Union, or anyone else in Europe.
Earlier Saturday, West German Finance Minister Theo Waigel said the East German economy was in a ``sorrowful state'' and urged the East German government to release details on its financial situation.
His meeting with Soviet President Mikhail S. Gorbachev convinced him, he told West German radio, that the two German states should "enter into negotiations as quickly as possible" after the March 18 East German election .
Skubiszewski faulted West German Chancellor Helmut Kohl's program for gradual German reunification, offered last week, for not making clear that reunification would respect the existing border between Poland and East Germany.
As the demonstrators rallied in the southern city of Plauen, West German Chancellor Helmut Kohl said in Moscow that Soviet President Mikhail S. Gorbachev had given him an unequivocal promise to respect German reunification.
Kohl said that his talks with Gorbachev -- who told him that reunification is a matter for the Germans themselves to decide -- could lead to an "economic breakthrough" in East Germany, which in turn could provide a "push forward" for all of Europe .
The chancellor said that almost all of the political parties and opposition groups in East Germany now support reunification.
West Germany has proposed a plan for greater unity, but East German leaders reject reunification.
Unconfirmed West German intelligence reports appearing in the West German media said Moscow fears a growing dissident movement and mass demonstrations in East Germany by next year.
Gorbachev inquired about plans by West German politicians to campaign in East Germany, Kohl said, adding that the Soviet leader did not appear to be upset about such political activity .
