Former East German leader Erich Honecker may be moved to a monastery to protect him from a possible lynching by enraged citizens, a newspaper said Wednesday.
``Then-general secretary Erich Honecker and the internal security chief Erich Mielke immediately after each session of the Politburo consulted with each other on the security situation of the German Democratic Republic,'' Krenz said.
Ousted East German leader Erich Honecker, who is expected to be indicted for high treason, was arrested Monday morning upon release from a hospital and taken to prison, the official news agency ADN said.
The news agency said the 77-year-old Honecker was arrested after being released from East Berlin's Charite hospital, where he had undergone surgery for a malignant kidney tumor.
Earlier this month, East German prosecutors said Honecker and former state security chief Erich Mielke would be charged with treason and corruption charges for misuse of their positions and state funds.
Honecker, the aging hard-line Stalinist leader who ruled East Germany for 18 years until his ouster on Oct. 18, had previously been declared too ill to withstand imprisonment.
On Sunday, West Germany's mass-circulation Bild newspaper said Honecker would be arrested, but that he would be held at a prison hospital because of his condition.
Earlier this month, East Germany's Luthern Church had offered to put Honecker up in a home for the aged upon his release from the hospital .
Ousted East German leader Erich Honecker was arrested and taken to prison today, and a prosecutor said he will tried for high treason in March.
Honecker, 77, was detained after his release from East Berlin's Charite hospital, where he had undergone surgery for a malignant kidney tumor, the official ADN news agency said.
On Sunday, West Germany's mass-circulation Bild newspaper said Honecker would be arrested but that he would be held at a prison hospital because of his condition.
Earlier this month, East Germany's Luthern Church had offered to put Honecker up in a home for the aged upon his release from the hospital .
East Germany's deposed Communist leader Erich Honecker is too sick to be held in jail but is fit enough to be tried, the official news agency ADN reported Monday.
Honecker has been staying at a Soviet military hospital outside East Berlin.
Ousted East German leader Erich Honecker will not stand trial in East Germany as long as the formerly Communist country exists, a West German newspaper reported.
Honecker is in poor health and remains confined to a Soviet military hospital in Beelitz outside East Berlin.
Bild said that Erich Mielke, the ex-head of East Germany's former secret police, was also unlikely to go to court in East Germany.
East Germany's ousted secret police chief threatened to break former Communist leader Erich Honecker's neck when the two faced each other in jail, a West German newspaper reported Wednesday.
Bild said Mielke and other members of Honecker's ruling circle will be moved to a West Berlin prison after German unification on Oct. 3.