``He's a very friendly dog,'' said Nero's master, Officer Joseph Faraguna.
Two dogs, to be specific, the city's top police dog and the nation's top show dog.
The aim, he said, is to have a "confident and happy dog" entering a competition.
"And breeds such as poodles have to be highly trimmed."; McFadden said he handles an average of 20 to 25 dogs at each show and works around 120 shows a year all over the U.S.
Other attractions include the appearance of Warren Eckstein, radio host of "Pet Show," who will answer behavioral questions about dogs (as well as cats, pigs and goldfish, if he's asked); free veterinary advice; a demonstration of how 4-H youngsters help train puppies to become guide dogs, and more than 70 vendors selling dog paraphernalia.
On Valentine's Day, for example, he said, "I'll take them out and play with them longer."; "But I don't want to be known as a dog zombie," said Wegman, who did go to the Westminster Kennel Club Dog Show without the dogs.
Before a show we sometimes work around the clock brushing and cleaning the dogs, working on their coats," said McFadden.
The Dog Fanciers Club organized the event Wednesday to honor Champion Great Elms Prince Charming II, a fluffy little Pomeranian, and Nero, a big, amiable bruiser of a German shepherd.
More than 2,500 dogs, representing 138 breeds, will compete for prizes at Sunday's All Breed Dog Show and Obedience Trials at the Los Angeles Sports Arena.
Over the last seven years, McFadden and his wife have shown dogs representing approximately 75 percent of the 135 breeds of dog.
In the scent relay, teams of dogs will jump over hurdles and locate the jackets of their owners.
Israeli couples in cutoff jeans and short-sleeved shirts pushed baby strollers from ring to ring to view the more than 50 different breeds ranging from tiny lap dogs like the Yorkshire terriers to Great Danes and St. Bernards.
I never got tired of him."; A dog's life; Had he been a different breed he would have been a "character actor," Wegman said, "like Lassie."; When Man Ray, who had become world famous, died of cancer in 1981, at the age of 11 years and 8 months, the artist mourned.
More than 2,000 purebred dogs participated in the national competition.
This was in contrast to 1987, before the uprising began, when a World Dog Show competition attracted scores of foreign competitors to Israel.
The dogs eat again at 6 p.m.
``We can find time for other things besides the intefadeh,'' said organizer Avi Marshak, using the Arabic word for uprising to describe the 9-month-old wave of Palestinian violence aimed at ending Israel's occupation of the West Bank and Gaza Strip.
Prince, said his agent and master Skip Piazza, ``doesn't have a very large diet anyway.''
