Clark Air Base is in Angeles, a city of more than 300,000 people about 50 miles north of Manila.
In the Philippines, officials have evacuated more than 12,000 people in three provinces since Mount Pinatubo began erupting last week.
A huge cloud of ash-laden steam rose up to 11,500 feet above the volcano today, spreading ash over a six-mile radius, the Philippine Institute of Vulcanology and Seismology said.
Officials said more were evacuated after today's eruption.
"In the worst case, a really big eruption, all of Clark Air Force Base could be covered" with glowing ash, Lipman said.
Institute Director Raymundo Punongbayan said Mount Pinatubo was in the "early eruptive stage" and "after that we will have bigger ones."; He said most of the ash and molten rocks had been flowing westward away from Clark.
If it does erupt, the deadly hot ash produced by the volcano could sweep across adjoining Clark Air Base, he said.
In Angeles, residents reported no ash fell today but said the air smelled of sulfur.
Friday's eruptions hurled ash over Clark, 10 miles east of the volcano, and Subic, 25 miles southwest, where the Clark personnel had been temporarily housed.
Most of the 16,000 Americans who live and work at Clark were evacuated Monday, when scientists said it was clear that the volcano, dormant for more than six centuries, was returning to life.
The five USGS scientists are among the few remaining people at Clark Air Base, which was evacuated along with thousands of Filipinos living near the volcano.
On June 3, the volcano spewed ash in a mild eruption.
The volcano, about 10 miles west of the air base, came to life last week after six centuries of dormancy.
Punongbayan said Tuesday that the site was in the path of the volcanic flow from Mount Pinatubo during its last major eruption, in 1380.
Raymundo Punongbayan, director of the Philippine Institute of Volcanology and Seismology, said scientists could not estimate how much magma was still pent up inside Mount Pinatubo, but said more eruptions at least as violent are expected within the next three days.
The last major eruption was the Taal volcano, about 50 miles south of Manila, in 1965.
The U.S. military began flying home hundreds of the 28,000 Americans who crowded onto Subic Bay Naval Base as a bizarre tropical blizzard of thick volcanic ash caused power failures across the base Friday during a third day of increasingly violent eruptions of Mount Pinatubo.
Philippine civil defense officials said that they had evacuated 19,369 people from villages within a 12-mile radius of the volcano by late Wednesday.
