, said to Thomas.
Metzenbaum said Thomas' refusal to give direct answers "makes it more difficult to vote for him."; THOMAS' VIEWS; Excerpts from Clarence Thomas' testimony:; On abortion: "I have no reason or agenda to prejudge the issue . . . or a predilection to rule one way or another on the issue of abortion."; On affirmative action: "The line that I drew was a line that said that we shouldn't have preferences, or goals, or timetables or quotas."; On natural law: "At no time did I feel, nor do I feel now, that natural law is anything more than the background to our Constitution."; HEAR IT, SEE IT; Senate confirmation hearings for Supreme Court nominee Clarence Thomas are scheduled to run through Friday this week and every weekday except Wednesday next week.
, said Thomas was doing well.
"Enough is enough."; Thomas said Senate confirmation of his nomination would give him "an opportunity to serve and give back" and to "bring something different to the court."; "I can walk in the shoes of the people who are affected by what the court does," Thomas said.
He said Thomas had been asked more than 70 questions about his abortion views even though Justice David H.
, about women's right to end their pregnancies, Thomas said, "Whether or not I have a view is irrelevant."; President Bush, asked at a news conference whether Thomas' claim not to have an opinion on abortion is credible, answered, "That's a question for the Senate to decide."; "He's handling himself very well," the president said.
And Simon said Thomas' performance thus far "has neither helped him nor hurt him."; Specter blamed fellow committee members more than Thomas in concluding, "We really haven't moved very far in the process."; Thomas, a black federal appeals judge, was picked by President Bush to replace the retiring Thurgood Marshall, the high court's only black justice.
Several committee members said they expected the committee to recommend, by a 10-4 or 9-5 vote, that the Senate confirm Thomas.
, "he's the only person gathered in the room who does not have an opinion."; Kohl added, "I'm concerned about his candor, his willingness to be forthcoming."; Today, Kohl asked the nominee, "Is it fair of you to say to us, for the most part, just view me on what I'm saying here this week?"; Kohl asked the black federal judge whether he was offended by published comments calling his appointment by President Bush a "quota."; "That would trouble anyone," Thomas said, adding, "I don't think it's accurate".
Wade (the landmark 1973 abortion-rights ruling) with another human being."; Moderate Republican Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania, who often casts a swing vote on the committee, said he was not troubled by Thomas' shift toward more moderate views at the hearings.
After still another Thomas answer, Biden said, "That's not the question I asked you, judge."; Republicans tried to deflect criticism over Thomas' refusal to answer questions from the Democrats.
, delivered a long, stinging lecture to Thomas, declaring: "The vanishing views of Judge Thomas have become a major issue in these hearings."; Kennedy listed 10 instances in which he said Thomas had abandoned or contradicted his previous positions.
Although Thomas appeared to back away from comments made in past speeches or articles, he told the committee, "My view is that I have been consistent."; Thomas' opponents believe Republicans Strom Thurmond of South Carolina, Orrin Hatch of Utah, Charles Grassley of Iowa, Alan Simpson of Wyoming and Hank Brown of Colorado are solid Thomas backers.
(check) On the other side of the Thomas confirmation issue, the National Abortion Rights Action League reported that senators had begun to receive the first of 500,000 anti-Thomas post cards the group has provided to the constituents of targeted lawmakers whose votes against Thomas' confirmation are regarded as critical.
Copyright 1991, San Jose Mercury News
After Simon discussed the feelings decades ago of a Jewish elementary schoolboy who left the room each day while his classmates recited a prayer, Thomas said, "Any policy of exclusion should be considered inappropriate."; Outside the hearing room, abortion-rights advocates said Thomas should not be allowed to disavow past comments they say show he would vote to ban most, if not all, abortions.
Heflin cited the "appearance of a confirmation conversion" and said it may raise questions of Thomas' "integrity and temperament."; But Heflin added, "I am not at this time of any firm opinion one way or the other" on whether Thomas should be confirmed.
Several senators were openly skeptical Wednesday over Thomas' insistence that he has no opinion on the 1973 Supreme Court decision legalizing abortion.
