An intestinal operation to lower the cholesterol of heart attack patients reduced their risk for another heart attack or death from heart disease, researchers said today.
About half of the 1.5 million Americans who suffer a heart attack each year don't have the known risk factors for heart disease, such as high cholesterol levels, cigarette smoking, obesity and high blood pressure.
Such "high renin" people are at a high risk of a heart attack.
There were no heart attacks among the 240 patients with low renin profiles who had no risk factors other than high blood pressure.
To Dr. Laragh, this suggests that a high renin profile might signal a high risk of heart attack even for people without high blood pressure.
A drug that eases the heart's workload can cut the risk of new cardiac attacks and death by 20 percent in people recovering from heart attacks, according to a major study released Thursday.
But the seven heart attacks in this small group constituted the highest incidence of heart attacks among the patients, 13 heart attacks per 1,000 person-years of observation.
A drug used to treat patients complaining of chest pain also could help prevent recurring heart attacks in four out of five heart patients, according to a study published in today's edition of the New England Journal of Medicine.
``It has a role in the management of patients with high cholesterol who have had a heart attack,'' Buchwald said.
While calcium blockers may not replace beta blockers after heart attacks, the researchers said these drugs still should have a role in treatment.
In an accompanying editorial, Victor J. Dzau of Stanford University medical school said the study shows that the renin profile test is "potentially useful" in identifying high blood pressure patients who are at risk of a heart attack.
Balloon angioplasty is also widely used to treat people with clogged heart arteries who have not suffered heart attacks.
Researchers at the University of Michigan recently determined that some heart attack victims can be released from the hospital as soon as three days after their heart attacks.
According to the Danish study, Verapamil is about as effective as another variety of blood pressure medicines known as beta blockers at protecting people after heart attacks.
The blood and urine test is already being done in many commercial laboratories but for medical conditions other than heart attack risk, said John H. Laragh of the Cardiovascular Center at Cornell University and New York Hospital.
After 42 days, 11 percent of those in the angioplasty group had died or suffered further heart attacks, as did 10 percent of those in the comparison group.
Without the treatment, patients had a 13 percent chance of dying from a second heart attack within five weeks, the researchers found.
Studies are under way to see if these ACE inhibitors protect patients against heart attacks as well as lower their blood pressure .
