Mrs. Thatcher, who trained as a chemist before studying law, said she viewed herself as prime minister, not as a woman.
Thatcher has committed a colossal blunder''.
Mrs. Thatcher, characteristically, was tougher.
Earlier this year, Mrs. Thatcher overtook Liberal Lord Asquith's 1908-1916 tenure as prime minister to become Britain's longest continuously serving prime minister of the 20th century.
Dutch Prime Minister Ruud Lubbers said, ``In the many years that she placed such an important stamp on the policies of the United Kingdom, Mrs. Thatcher has shown that she does not avoid making difficult decisions that she deems to be in the nation's interest.
The reluctance Mrs. Thatcher showed toward increasing European unity was the source of most criticism.
``Margaret Thatcher was a completely reliable ally and partner of the greatest personal integrity,'' Reagan said in a statement after Mrs. Thatcher announced her impending retirement.
Said Prime Minister Bob Hawke of Australia, ``Even those like myself who have been at odds with Margaret Thatcher on particular issues have admired her courage and tenacity of purpose.
Lord Callaghan, former Labor prime minister whom Mrs. Thatcher defeated in 1979, said her comments had ``considerably weakened her position''.
Mrs. Thatcher told The Sunday Correspondent in an interview published Sunday that she hoped to lead her Conservative Party to a fourth successive election but said it was unlikely she would try for a fifth.
Prime Minister Toshiki Kaifu of Japan said the British prime minister ``is a rare leader of firm convictions who was invigorated the United Kingdom and I feel great regret that she has withdrawn from the front line''.
Former President Reagan thanked British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher for backing him up when other allies backed down, heaping praise on his political soulmate as she heads off into the sunset.
Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir of Israel saidafter hearing of her resignation that Israel ``feels a moment of sorrow because we all know this special personality, Mrs. Thatcher, who did many things and was an outstanding leader''.
Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher has weakened her position and kicked off the race to succeed her by saying she plans to step down after winning another term, opposition leaders and political observers said.
Thatcher'' just as the 1956 crisis over Britain's attack on the Suez Canal ruined former Prime Minister Anthony Eden.
Women represented 43 percent of the British labor force in 1988, compared with 40 percent in 1979 when Mrs. Thatcher became prime minister.
``Even were she not to fight a fifth election, Mrs. Thatcher could yet enjoy seven more years in charge,'' it said.
But there is only one Mrs. Thatcher.
