A major earthquake rocked northern California Tuesday evening, collapsing part of the San Francisco Bay Bridge and shaking Candlestick Park and buildings up to 95 miles away.
The major earthquake that struck the San Francisco Bay area Tuesday occurred in a region seismologists targeted as having the highest probability of a strong quake in Northern California.
A violent earthquake rocked Northern California during Tuesday evening's rush hour, caving in a section of the San Francisco Bay Bridge, terrifying World Series fans in Candlestick Park and shaking buildings as far as 200 miles away.
Private groups and officials from Tokyo to London to Charleston, S.C., offered help to the ruptured San Francisco Bay area, but some said relief for the earthquake could drain coffers already strained by previous disasters.
Buildings in San Francisco swayed several feet.
Ever since the 1906 earthquake devastated San Francisco, many scientists have believed the next ``big one'' would strike the Los Angeles end of the mighty San Andreas Fault.
An earthquake of 3.5 on the Richter scale can cause slight damage in the local area, 4 moderate damage, 5 considerable damage, 6 severe damage.
``We all know the horrors of an earthquake and we express our deep-felt sympathy for the people of the San Francisco Bay area''.
The damage in the Bay area occurred to the same kind of structures heavily damaged in the 1987 Whittier quake in the Los Angeles area, which registered a 5.9 Richter reading, Allen said.
Allen said many of the same kinds of older structures that appeared to have been damaged in San Francisco also exist in the Los Angeles region.
San Francisco Police Officer Dwayne Collins said there were reports that buildings and statues in the historic South of Market district near downtown had collapsed.
Hundreds of people fled Bay Area Rapid Transit subway and elevated stations in San Francisco and East Bay suburbs.
Tuesday's earthquake, the strongest on the San Andreas fault since the San Francisco quake on April 18, 1906, came in a place that had been identified by scientists just last year as the most likely spot for a major jolt in Northern California within the next 30 years .
There were unconfirmed reports that a shopping mall collapsed in San Jose, 50 miles south of San Francisco.
One major fire was blazing in San Francisco's Marina District and another near the library at University of California at Berkeley.
That suggested a bigger quake might happen in the San Francisco Bay area sooner than some believed.
Geological Survey's Earthquake Center said the quake's magnitude was 6.9 on the Richter scale.
The epicenter of the quake was about 8 miles northeast of Santa Cruz and 75 miles south of San Francisco.
