They have never won Academy Awards for their individual achievements.
Oscar's 60-year history is filled with examples of the film world's highest achievers being overlooked by the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences.
Although ``Broadcast News'' won seven major nominations, including best picture and three acting categories, Brooks was strangely overlooked by the Academy's directing branch.
Since no movie has ever won a best picture Oscar without its director at least being nominated, the chances of the once-favored ``Broadcast News'' to be a big winner at the awards ceremony on April 11 have been significantly reduced.
Here, courtesy of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences, are 20 questions about Oscar: 1.
Oscar selection has come under scrutiny as film studios go to new lengths to pull votes out of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences.
More than 4,600 members were given ballots this year for the 61st Annual Academy Awards, which will be telecast on March 29 from the Shrine Auditorium in Los Angeles.
All voting members of the Academy can participate in the best picture nominations and may vote for the final awards in all categories.
With Oscar statuettes selling at auction for more than $10,000 and a Chicago trophy company casting alleged Academy Award clones, the National Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences is scrambling to make sure Oscar's golden sheen isn't tarnished by Hollywood hucksterism.
The academy noted that the ruling applied only to the statuette and that the academy's trademark and service marks for the Oscar and the Academy Award names and symbols are unaffected.
The 1989 film, widely hailed by critics, received only two Academy Award nominations, and isn't being considered for best picture or best director.
``I still feel we made the best film of the year,'' he said.
Well, it did turn out to be "Rain Man's" evening, but not until the last few minutes, and if there was a message in Wednesday night's Academy Awards results, it's that parity has returned to Hollywood .
This year, several winners came from films that failed to ring up big numbers at the box office: Jodie Foster as best actress from "The Accused," Geena Davis as best supporting actress from "The Accidental Tourist" .
ACADEMY AWARDS; 1988 (YEAR); MOTION PICTURES; HONORS; RAIN MAN (MOTION PICTURE); HOFFMAN, DUSTIN; FOSTER, JODIE; LEVINSON, BARRY; KLINE, KEVIN; DAVIS, GEENA; AWARDS
The Walt Disney Co. filed suit in Los Angeles federal court Thursday against the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences, charging copyright infringement of its Snow White character and unfair competition .
At that point, the Disney statement said, the academy, "through a legal representative, denied to Disney that the Academy Award program contained any material deleterious to the interests of Disney, without revealing the academy's intention to feature Disney's Snow White" .
But Okun said the company, which won four Oscars Wednesday night, has never sued Silver over his use of the Snow White character in that production.
SNOW WHITE; CARR, ALAN; BOWMAN, EILEEN; WALT DISNEY CO; ACADEMY OF MOTION PICTURE ARTS AND SCIENCES; ACADEMY AWARDS; SUITS; COPYRIGHT; CARTOON CHARACTERS