The National Weather Service in San Juan, Puerto Rico, said Gilbert was moving westward at 15 mph with a ``broad area of cloudiness and heavy weather'' rotating around the center of the storm.
Gilbert, an ``extremely dangerous hurricane'' and one of the strongest storms in history, roared toward Mexico's Yucatan Peninsula Tuesday with 175 mph winds after battering the Dominican Republic, Jamaica and the tiny Cayman Islands.
The hurricane killed at least five people Sunday in the Dominican Republic, civil defense officials said.
The National Hurricane Center in Miami reported its position at 2 a.m. Sunday at latitude 16.1 north, longitude 67.5 west, about 140 miles south of Ponce, Puerto Rico, and 200 miles southeast of Santo Domingo.
The Cuban news agency Prensa Latina said 40,000 people, many of them foreign vacationers and students, were evacuated Tuesday from the Isle of Youth off the southwestern coast as the hurricane passed 200 miles to the south.
``The people who need to be concerned now are those people over on the Yucatan Peninsula _ Cancun, Cozumel, that whole area,'' Sheets said.
With tropical storm force winds extending 250 miles north and 200 miles south of the hurricane's center, Gilbert also was one of the largest.
Hurricane Gilbert swept toward the Dominican Republic Sunday, and the Civil Defense alerted its heavily populated south coast to prepare for high winds, heavy rains and high seas.
They gave no figures on the numer of evacuees, but said people in Cancun were being sent from the hotel zone into the city center, about 6 miles away.
The center said tropical storm-force winds extend outward up to 250 miles to the north and 200 miles to the south of the center.
National Weather Service said Gilbert was centered near latitude 19.9 north, longitude 84.8 west, or about 150 miles east-southeast of Cozumel.
With the winds of Hurricane Gilbert clocked at 175 miles per hour, U.S. weather officials called Gilbert the most intense hurricane ever recorded in the Western Hemisphere.
That storm hit Galveston, Texas, Sept. 8 and killed more than 6,000 people.
Robert Sheets, director of the National Hurricane Center in Florida, said early today he expects Gilbert to make landfall on the Texas-Louisiana coast in 48 to 60 hours.
``Moisture and heat are what drives the hurricane,'' Zimmer said.
The storm was approaching from the southeast with sustained winds of 75 mph gusting to 92 mph.
The center said Hurricane Gilbert was the most intense storm on record in terms of barometric pressure.
Six people died and 60,000 were left homeless in Jamaica on Monday, officials there said.
