The jurors are deciding whether Raymond Buckey, 31, and his mother, Peggy McMartin Buckey, 63, are guilty or innocent of charges they molested children at their family-owned McMartin Pre-School in Manhattan Beach.
Originally, there were seven defendants, including Raymond Buckey's sister, Peggy Ann Buckey, and Virginia McMartin, the founder of the school, mother of Mrs. Buckey and grandmother of Raymond Buckey.
Seven jurors who spoke with reporters in a joint news conference after acquitting Raymond Buckey and his mother, Peggy McMartin Buckey, on 52 molestation charges Thursday said they felt some children who testified may have been molested _ but not at the family-run McMartin Pre-School.
The McMartin Pre-school molestation case was the longest criminal trial in U.S. history.
_March 22, 1984: Public outcry prompts Los Angeles District Attorney Robert Philibosian to send the case to grand jurors, who indict Buckey; his mother, Peggy McMartin Buckey; his sister, Peggy Ann Buckey; his grandmother Virginia McMartin, and three employees, Mary Ann Jackson, Babette Spitler and Betty Raidor, on 115 charges of child molestation.
The jury on Thursday acquitted Raymond Buckey and his mother, Peggy McMartin Buckey, of 52 child molestation counts and deadlocked on 13 other counts.
In the nation's longest and costliest trial, Raymond Buckey and his mother, Peggy McMartin Buckey, were acquitted Thursday on 52 child molestation charges.
``Even if you accept that the children were molested, it didn't necessarily mean they were molested at the McMartin Pre-School,'' said juror Brenda Williams .
Former McMartin teachers Raymond Buckey and his mother, Peggy McMartin Buckey, were acquitted Thursday of 52 charges of molesting students.
Ray Buckey and his mother, Peggy McMartin Buckey, were found not guilty Thursday of molesting children at the family-run McMartin Pre-School in Manhattan Beach, a verdict which brought to a close the longest and costliest criminal trial in history .
They said nothing .
In March, 1984, Ray Buckey was rearrested, along with his sister, Peggy Ann Buckey, his mother, Peggy McMartin Buckey, his grandmother, Virginia McMartin, and teachers Betty Raidor, Babette Spitler and Mary Ann Jackson.
RAY BUCKEY, 31 -- Key defendant in the McMartin case, Buckey is the grandson of nursery school founder Virginia McMartin and son of co-defendant Peggy McMartin Buckey.
PEGGY MCMARTIN BUCKEY, 63 -- Co-defendant in the McMartin case, she both directed the Virginia McMartin Pre-School and taught there.
Photo, COLOR, Defendants Ray Buckey and his mother, Peggy McMartin Buckey, after the jury verdicts were read.
VIRGINIA MCMARTIN PRESCHOOL; BUCKEY, RAYMOND; BUCKEY, PEGGY MCMARTIN; CHILD ABUSE; CHILD MOLESTATION; TRIALS
In the criminal case -- the longest and costliest criminal proceeding in U.S. history -- Ray Buckey, 31, and his mother Peggy McMartin Buckey, 63, were acquitted Thursday of 52 counts of molestation involving 11 youngsters who attended the family nursery school in Manhattan Beach.
Prosecutors had just dropped charges of child molestation against Buckey, one of the original seven defendants in the McMartin Pre-School case.
The McMartin case, which prompted the longest and most expensive criminal trial in U.S. history, ended Thursday with the acquittal of defendants Ray Buckey and Peggy McMartin Buckey on a total of 52 counts of child molestation at the Manhattan Beach school.