Some of the 150,000 miners who went on strike last week in Siberia's Kuznetsk coal basin region returned to work Thursday, and the rest went back today, strike leaders and the official Tass news agency said.
The National Union of Mineworkers said an estimated 200,000 black gold and coal miners in South Africa will begin a strike Sunday night for higher wages and better working conditions, in what it said would be the largest job action ever to affect the mining industry in that nation.
Strikes by tens of thousands of miners in this Siberian coal region spread to four more of the Soviet Union's coal fields, Tass reported today.
In the largest coal region, the Donetsk Coal Basin of the Ukraine, more than 300,000 miners were on strike, the deputy minister of the coal industry, Alexander P. Fisun, told Izvestia.
Port workers in Szczecin and southwestern coal miners today declared sympathy strikes with miners demanding the legalization of Solidarity, opposition activists said.
Tass said their demands were similar to those of striking miners in the Donetsk and Kuznetsk coal basins, who are seeking greater local control over their industries and better wages and living conditions.
More than 4,000 workers at a coal mine in the southern city of Jastrzebie went on strike today to demand legalization of Solidarity and higher wages, a spokeswoman said.
If workers in mines not included in current negotiations join in sympathy strikes, a total of 300,000 miners could be on strike, he said.
Tass said late Thursday that strikes had ended at six mines in the Donetsk region but that most mines in the area remained on strike.
Miners in the Karaganda region in Soviet Central Asia today refused to work, Tass said.
Komsomolskaya Pravda said night-shift workers walked out at three mines in Vorkuta and at another one the miners were still working but were preventing the coal from being shipped outside the region.
President Mikhail S. Gorbachev said today that thousands of striking coal miners and other workers are urging railway employees to join the work stoppage and that the unrest threatens his economic reforms.
On Wednesday, Tass said that 24,000 strikers in Kuznetsk were back at work and 150,000 remained on strike.
Saunin, from the Donetsk region of the Ukraine, the country's top coal region, said the number of striking mines there increased from 20 on Tuesday to 58 today.
More than 10,000 coal miners in four states were off the job today to express sympathy for miners in Virginia and West Virginia who have waged a bitter strike since April against the Pittston Coal Group.
Coal miners in Siberia ended their strike today after exacting promises of better food, housing and working conditions, but the wave of unrest they launched continued in other key coal regions.
According to the state news agency Tass, the strike has spread to the Donetsk coal basin of the Ukraine, the Vorkuta and Inta regions of northern Russia, and the Kuznetsk coal basin of western Siberia .
Solidarity leaders said the strike began Tuesday when overnight shift workers refused to take up their tools.
