However, Sakharov has insisted on speedier progress in improving the Soviet record on human rights, and during a Jan. 15 meeting in the Kremlin, he handed Gorbachev a list of 200 people he said were imprisoned for their views.
Soviet media once branded Andrei D. Sakharov a traitor, but a Moscow weekly has now provided a sympathetic portrait of the human rights activist and his wife.
``Now we can definitely see parallels between what he said then, and those ideas that we are putting forward today,'' Moscow News said.
``In effect, sometimes Sakharov bitterly jokes that he'd like to return to Gorky for a few months to be able to work alone on scientific work,'' Moscow News said.
Moscow News noted that in 1975, in a tract titled ``Knowledge and the World,'' Sakharov set forth his views on Soviet affairs.
While Sakharov was in exile in the closed city of Gorky, the author of a book that accused him of leading a luxurious and scandal-ridden existence came to ask for an interview, Moscow News said.
Sakharov has been quoted numerous times by Soviet media since his return from exile, but the article in Moscow News was the longest devoted to him so far.
Moscow News said Sakharov was stubborn, unassuming, an undisputed member of his country's intelligentsia and a man with his own views on how to deal conscientiously with world affairs and the demands of this life.
This week's issue of the newspaper Moscow News said that Sakharov long ago understood the need for change in the Soviet Union.
Andrei D. Sakharov urged members of the Academy of Sciences on Monday to reject the leadership's list of candidates for the new Soviet legislature, which does not include the Nobel Peace Prize winner.
Gorbachev's reform campaign, but has called for the liberation of all political prisoners and more improvements in the field of human rights.
But the account in Moscow News only indirectly mentioned the nearly seven years Sakharov spent in forced internal exile for criticizing the Soviet drive into Afghanistan, indicating that topic is still too sensitive.
Tass made no mention of Sakharov in its three-paragragh report, but said the Soviet delegation to the meeting was headed by Yevgeny Velikhov, vice president of the Soviet Academy of Sciences .
Moscow News also pointedly notes that the 1975 Nobel Peace Prize winner has praised Mikhail S.
Past Soviet reports, published before Gorbachev became Soviet leader, accused Bonner of marrying Sakharov for his money and said the couple lived in ``oriental luxury'' amid ``scandals between spouses''.
In its latest issue, the weekly devoted its entire back page to describing the home life of Sakharov, 66, the 1975 Nobel Peace Prize winner, and said the words most often heard in his seventh-floor Moscow apartment are ``help me''.
Gorbachev said he would attend Sakharov's funeral Monday afternoon in southwest Moscow's Vostryakovskoye Cemetery.
The 67-year-old Nobel Peace Prize winner is on his first trip to the West, less than two years after Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev freed him from internal exile in the city of Gorky.
