But the Navy defended the 16-inch gun, the mightiest in use on any ocean, after an explosion killed 47 sailors Wednesday aboard the battleship Iowa while a turret crew loaded gunpowder for target practice.
But Cmdr. Mark Baker, chief of the Navy's Pentagon press office, said later that none of the turret's three guns had been fired.
A spokesman for the Atlantic Fleet and the ship's former captain both said the explosion in the No. 2 turret could have been triggered by red-hot debris from earlier firings in the three-gun turret.
None of the guns in the no. 2 turret had been fired before the explosion instantly killed the seamen, Navy officials said.
Navy officials have said that the explosion in the No. 2 gun turret damaged only the turret.
But the 16-inch guns often missed their targets, which the Navy blamed on unreliable powder from World War II.
The bodies of 47 sailors killed in the gun explosion on the Iowa arrived in the United States on Thursday as the Navy tried to figure out what caused the battleship's turret to blow up.
Baker said no guns in the No. 2 turret had been fired and the order had just been given to the No. 2 turret crew to load and prepare the center gun when the explosion occurred.
Baliles said.
Officials refused to speculate publicly on what caused the worst disaster to strike a Navy ship in more than a decade, a blast that ripped through the Iowa's No. 2 gun turret during naval exercises Wednesday in the Atlantic north of Puerto Rico.
The Navy organized a board of inquiry and placed a moratorium on firing 16-inch guns, found only on the Iowa and its three sister battleships, the New Jersey, the Wisconsin and the Missouri.
The Navy imposed a moratorium on firing 16-inch guns found on the Iowa and its three sister battleships, the New Jersey, the Wisconsin and the Missouri, pending an investigation of the disaster.
No eyewitnesses survived Wednesday's explosion behind one of the 16-inch guns on the Iowa, one of the largest warships ever.
Pentagon officials declined to speculate publicly about the exact cause of the disaster, the worst to strike a Navy ship since 1977, but two officers _ Capt. Paul Hanley, a fleet spokesman, and Capt. Larry Seaquist, the ship's former captain _ said a possible explanation was that red-hot debris from a previous round ignited new charges.
During the trip home, investigators on board were reviewing a videotape of the turret taken by an Iowa officer who had wanted to record the firing of the big guns when the explosion occurred, said Lt.
At the White House, President Bush brushed aside suggestions that the explosion was due to the age of the Iowa, a World War II leviathan brought out of mothballs during the military buildup of the Reagan administration.
None of the four battleships of the Iowa class, which saw service in World War II and the Korean and Vietnam wars, has ever sustained such an explosion, Pentagon officials said.
But with the still-unexplained fire and explosion last Wednesday in the battleship's No. 2 gun turret, he said, ``Fate has written a sorrowful chapter in the history of this great ship''.
