Hurricane-force winds first hit the coast by 9:15 p.m. EDT, and about three hours later the eye of the storm passed over the Isle of Palms just east of Charleston, said Bob Sheets, director of the National Hurricane Center in Coral Gables, Fla.
The eye was about 10 miles across and top winds were still at 135 mph. Hugo was expected to turn gradually to the north, causing severe flooding as it moved up the East Coast.
Near its center, Hugo's muscle reached winds of 135 mph, up from 125 mph earlier in the day and 105 mph the day before.
North and South Carolina can expect tornadoes linked to Hugo for the next two days, according to the hurricane center.
``This is a dangerous, killer hurricane, the likes of which few people who have lived all their lives in Charleston have experienced,'' warned Mayor Joseph P. Riley Jr. Hugo was the first major hurricane to strike Charleston since Hurricane Gracie came ashore 70 miles to the south in 1959.
Supercomputers, satellites and the expertise of several hurricane forecasters predicted the destructive path Hurricane Hugo would follow, giving people plenty of time to flee the South Carolina coast.
Forecasters at the National Hurricane Center used computer models to track Hugo's path into Charleston, S.C.
Here is a chronology of Hurricane Hugo's destructive path across the Caribbean into South Carolina:
Sept. 17 _ On Antigua, two people are killed and there is widespread wind and rain damage.
Sept. 21 (midnight) _ Hugo crashes into Charleston, S.C., with winds of 135 mph, leveling buildings and flooding streets.
Hugo blasted the eastern Caribbean and the Carolinas with 135 mph winds this past week, killing at least 41 people.
That made it among the 12 strongest hurricanes this century to hit the United States, the National Hurricane Center's Miles Lawrence said today.
Gilbert was so strong that Bob Sheets, director of the national hurricane center, said forecasters may have to use an intensity scale of 1-6 in the future, instead of the current 1-5, with five the highest.
The storm, which caused billions in damage, claimed 17 lives in South Carolina, and only two were in the Charleston area, which bore the brunt of Hugo's 135 mph winds.
The two dominant home and automobile insurers in the Carolinas said Tuesday that they expect to be hit with about $600 million in claims from Hurricane Hugo.
The Bloomington, Ill.-based company is also projecting an additional $100 million in claims from storm damage in North Carolina and Virginia, he said .
There were a phenomenal number of claims from that storm, but there was not the severity of damage" as in Hugo, Parsons said.
HURRICANES; STORMS -- SOUTH CAROLINA; HOMEOWNERS INSURANCE; AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE; NATIONWIDE LIFE INSURANCE CO; CONTINENTAL CORP; DISASTERS; PROPERTY DAMAGE; INSURANCE CLAIMS; STORMS -- NORTH CAROLINA; STATE FARM FIRE & CASUALTY CO; STORMS -- PUERTO RICO; STORMS -- VIRGIN ISLANDS OF THE UNITED STATES