Iraq then claimed Kuwait as part of its territory, but the appearance on the Kuwaiti side of the border of troops from Britain and other Arab states deterred further action by Iraq .
Iraq had moved about 100,000 troops to its border with Kuwait after claiming that Kuwait's production of oil beyond quotas of the OPEC cartel had depressed the world price, thus diminishing Iraq's revenue, and that Kuwait had been stealing oil from a field that straddles the border.
, The Iraqi government of President Saddam Hussein said the Kuwaiti government had been overthrown.
The White House denounced the incursion, issuing a statement that said, ``The United States strongly condemns the Iraqi military invasion of Kuwait ...
U.S. warships have been on ``short-term'' alert 600 miles southeast of the Iraq-Kuwait border since July 24 because of the tensions in the oil-rich Persian Gulf region, scene of heavy fighting in the Iran-Iraq war.
The invasion comes nearly two weeks after Iraq massed troops on Kuwait's border in a dispute over an oilfield and Kuwait's violation of OPEC oil production quotas, which had kept down the price of crude.
The United States, whose Persian Gulf naval patrols helped Iraq defeat Iran in the 1980-1988 war, has six warships in the area.
Iraqi troops have launched an offensive against Kuwait, the Kuwaiti embassy said Wednesday night.
Kelly told a House subcommittee Tuesday that while the United States has no treaty obligations that would mandate military support for Kuwait, the United States does believe strongly in respect for territories of all states in the region.
Tank-led Iraqi troops invaded Kuwait before dawn Thursday, seizing the ruler's palace and other government buildings, Kuwaiti officials reported.
They have been conducting exercises since July 23 with forces of the United Arab Emirates, some 700 miles southest of Kuwait.
The radio of Kuwait's new Iraqi-installed government claimed that Iraqi troops began pulling out of Kuwait on Sunday, but the United States said it doubted a withdrawal was really under way.
Iraq also demanded the Kuwaiti island of Bubiyan, which is opposite Iraq's only outlets to the Persian Gulf.
Department spokesman Richard Boucher said Kelly repeated to the Iraqi envoy the U.S. desire for a peaceful solution to the tensions with Kuwait and urged Iraq to respect to sovereignty of all nations in the region.
The crisis began July 17 when Saddam accused Kuwait of trying to wreck the debt-ridden Iraqi economy with oil overproduction and began massing troops on Kuwait's border.
``We have conveyed this message to the Iraqi ambassador in Washington and to the Iraqi government through our embassy in Baghdad.
The invasion came a day after talks between Kuwait and Iraq collapsed in Jiddah, Saudi Arabia.
In Baghdad, Saddam's government announced Thursday that the Kuwaiti government had been toppled.
