The Soviets finished first in both number of gold medals, with 11, and total medals, with 29, a record for the Winter Olympics.
Among the highlights: _Greg Louganis won the Olympic Spirit Award as top American athlete Sunday for winning gold medals in platform and 3-meter springboard diving.
The Soviet Union won the first U.S.-Soviet Olympic medal contest since 1976, getting 55 gold medals to 37 for East Germany and 36 for the United States.
Debi Thomas' dream of Olympic gold turned into disappointment Saturday as East Germany's Katarina Witt won her second straight Olympic championship and Canadian Elizabeth Manley took home the silver before a crowd of cheering countrymen.
East Germany's athletes won nine golds, 25 overall; while Switzerland's team came in third in both gold medals, five, and overall medals, 15.
As the Olympics winded up its next-to-last day, the Soviet Union had 27 medals, including 11 golds, while East Germany in second place had 22, including nine golds .
East Germany had 102 medals and 37 gold, and the United States 94 medals and 36 gold.
The Soviets clinched the gold medal Friday night, and America finished seventh for the second straight time.
In addition to the three figure skating medals, the U.S. team had three speed-skating medals: one each gold, silver and bronze.
She also stayed on target to become the second woman to win four track and field gold medals in a single Olympics.
Back to school,'' said Thomas, who won the bronze medal despite three faulty landings.
Van Gennip took more than six seconds off her own world record in the 5,000 meters to win her third gold medal.
Florence Griffith Joyner twice smashed a world record Thursday as she blazed to a gold medal in the 200-meter sprint.
Many felt that the United States was robbed of a second-place tie for golds when judges awarded a bout to a South Korean boxer over American Roy Jones in the 156-pound event on the final day of competition.
She won the gold in the 500 and the bronze in the 1,000 meters.
Griffith Joyner, who set an Olympic record Sunday in winning the 100 meters, had a big lead Thursday as she turned the curve for the final 100 meters.
Griffith Joyner dashed to her second gold in 21.34 seconds, shattering the world mark she had set just 90 minutes earlier in her semifinal heat.
Witt, a three-time world champion from East Germany, became the first repeat singles champion since Dick Button took Olympic gold in 1948 and '52.
