Danny Cooper, director of the Alabama Emergency Management Agency, said three people were seriously injured in an earlier tornado that hit a home in Clay County in eastern Alabama.
State Police and survivors said they believed the school was hit by a tornado, but the National Weather Service said it could not confirm that until investigators went to the scene.
A tornado slammed into a shopping district, a residential area and a school Wednesday, killing at least 15 people, injuring more than 300 and trapping people in cars and homes, authorities said.
The National Weather Service earlier said a tornado hit the east Alabama hamlet of Mellow Valley, severely damaging at least one home and causing some injuries.
He said two people were killed when the twister hit house trailers in rural areas east of Huntsville.
Another tornado touched down about 1:30 p.m. as severe weather swept across much of Alabama and the National Weather Service placed most of the state under a tornado watch.
Here is a state-by-state look at the tornadoes and severe thunderstorms that have killed at least 27 people, injured more than 500 and left hundreds homeless since Wednesday:
The National Weather Service said the storm probably was a tornado .
In Georgia, five people were injured, four critically, and at least 200 people evacuated after a tornado struck two mobile home parks and an interstate highway near Palmetto, about 25 miles southeast of Atlanta, authorities said.
There were 463 injuries and about 1,000 people left homeless, authorities said.
A third tornado was reported shortly before 3:30 p.m. crossing the Coosa River near Titus in east Alabama, the Weather Service said.
A tornado slammed into a shopping district, a residential area and a school Wednesday, killing at least 14 people, injuring nearly 300 and trapping many others in their cars and homes, police said .
The tornado left 18 people dead, hundreds injured and up to 1,000 homeless.
Severe thunderstorms also developed over Alabama and South Carolina during the afternoon, and the weather service reported a tornado north of Greenwood, S.C.
An afternoon thunderstorm in east-central Alabama formed a tornado which damaged at least one home, and the Clay County Sheriff's office said an unknown number of people were injured in one house.
One twister smashed into a residential district, a shopping area and a school, killing at least two people and causing dozens of injuries, police said.
Elsewhere: _In Georgia, 19 people were injured, four critically, and at least 200 people were evacuated after a tornado strus.C., and a tornado toppled trees, downed power lines and damaged 20 houses near Greenwood, S.C.
Three people were injured in an earlier tornado in Clay County in eastern Alabama.
