Marcos said she has tried to telephone Mrs. Aquino from Hawaii but was told the president was busy.
Mrs. Aquino has said she would allow Marcos to return now only if he and his family swore allegiance to her government and returned the money he allegedly stole during his 20-year rule.
But the government has not done so because of Mrs. Aquino's refusal to let Marcos enter the country.
Mrs. Aquino's government has said it will file criminal charges against Marcos, whom it has accused of stealing up to $10 billion in government funds.
President Corazon Aquino said today she will not allow Ferdinand Marcos to come home to die and her government will not permit the ousted president to be buried on Philippine soil.
Marcos that I do pray that he will still recover from this latest critical illness,'' Mrs. Aquino said.
The Manila Bulletin and The Manila Chronicle quoted Mrs. Aquino's press secretary, Teodoro Benigno, as saying that Mrs. Aquino made the assurance to two Swiss lawyers before she visited Switzerland earlier this month.
President Corazon Aquino has agreed to allow Ferdinand Marcos to return to the Philippines so that the government can try him on charges of stealing billions of dollars, newspapers said Saturday.
Marcos' wife Imelda appealed today to Mrs. Aquino to ``open her heart'' and allow the former president to return.
Mrs. Aquino said the Philippines' debt was projected to increase to $29 billion by year's end but that much was money that ``was in fact stolen by the previous government'' of ousted dictator Ferdinand Marcos.
Mrs. Aquino has refused to allow Marcos into the Philippines, citing security reasons.
``My countrymen, I am appealing to each and every one of you to pray that, hopefully, Mrs. Aquino will know that bringing home Marcos will bring true reconciliation, true peace and unity for our country,'' Mrs.
Mrs. Aquino had said earlier: ``I regret to inform Mrs.
The reports did not say when criminal charges against Marcos, Aquino's ousted predecessor, will be filed or when Mrs. Aquino will allow him to return.
President Corazon Aquino on Friday refused to allow Ferdinand Marcos to return home to die and said her government won't permit him to be buried here despite ``a last appeal'' from his wife.
Marcos has been living in Hawaii since he was toppled by the civilian-military revolt that swept Mrs. Aquino to power in February 1986.
When told of Mrs. Aquino's statement, Mrs.
Mrs. Aquino succeeded Marcos after the 1986 uprising that toppled his administration and forced him into exile in Hawaii.
