Shadyside Fire Chief Mark Badia said rescuers pulled people from three cars in Wegee Creek, which flows through Shadyside and into the Ohio River.
Vogt said two bodies were found in the Ohio River and one was found in a field next to the river after water receded.
Thunderstorms swept through central and eastern Ohio, causing flooding that killed at least ten people, left dozens missing and forced hundreds of others from their homes, officials said today.
Two creeks just outside this Ohio River village of 4,300 people overflowed when about 4 inches of rain fell Thursday night in about an hour.
Belmont County Sheriff's Department spokeswoman Judy Phillips said a Shadyside bar full of people was washed away when water caved in the back wall.
About 35 buildings, including a tavern, were damaged along Wegee Creek, and 50 buildings were hit by a flood along Pipe Creek, four miles south of Wegee Creek, said Dick Quinlin, Belmont County emergency services coordinator.
Coast Guard were searching the Ohio River for survivors and bodies, and Badia said National Guardsmen were to continue searching the creeks throughout the night.
Torrential thunderstorms sent a flash flood surging through a valley into this Ohio River town, killing at least 11 people, leaving 51 missing and scores of others homeless Friday, authorities said.
Rescuers pulled people from three cars in Wegee Creek, which flows through Shadyside and into the Ohio River, said Badia.
Residents from Newark and Marne in Licking County spent Thursday night in three emergency shelters, said Licking County Disaster Services Agency spokesman Neil Snelling.
County Sheriff Tom McCort, who said he was running the recovery effort, said 51 people in Shadysville and Meade Township, where the two creeks run south of the village, were missing as of 8:45 p.m.
Two inches of rain caused flooding in Franklin County in central Ohio and 3.75 inches of rain was dumped on Holmes County in north-central Ohio, the National Weather Service said.
Licking County was already among 14 Ohio counties covered in a disaster declaration issued by President Bush for storms earlier this month, and people who suffered losses from Thursday night's storms will also be eligible for assistance, Ms.
There also was flooding in Jefferson County, north of Belmont, and Licking County in central Ohio.
Fink said he feared there wouldn't be enough funeral homes to handle the dead in this eastern Ohio town of 4,300 people.
The Ohio departments of transportation and natural resources, the State Highway Patrol, the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio and the American Red Cross are assisting state government in assessing the damage, Ohio Emergency Management Agency spokeswoman Stacie Gilg said.
In Jefferson County, just north of Belmont County in the eastern part of the state, 50 to 60 residents were evacuated in Adena, where water was 6 to 8 feet deep in streets because of creek flooding.
_ is in Belmont County, a mostly hilly, rural area in eastern Ohio.
