Iran said today that it would welcome relief offered by its bitter enemy, the United States, to help victims of the earthquake that has killed as many as 35,000 people, the State Department said in Washington .
Like Thursday's earthquake in Iran, the Dec. 7, 1988, earthquake in Armenia killed about 25,000 people.
They relate to that,'' he said.
``The regime is very much fearful of public outrage,'' said Shahin Gobadi, spokesman for the People's Mojahedin of Iran.
At least 25,000 people died and thousands were injured in the quake, which demolished scores of villages and buried thousands of people in the rubble of their homes, Iranian officials said.
The State Department said Friday that Iran was willing to accept earthquake relief from the American Red Cross and other U.S. humanitarian organizations .
An anti-American newspaper in Iran said Sunday the United States is partly to blame for the death of tens of thousands of people in last week's earthquake.
Embassy in Tehran, has said it would welcome relief from the American Red Cross and other U.S. humanitarian groups.
``If the United States has real humanitarian objectives and intended to help the Iranian nation, it should do only one thing, stop hatching plots,'' the newspaper said.
``There were many, many victims before this tragedy and there are victims now whose needs need to be addressed by the people of the United States,'' he said.
Gobadi said the country cannot properly assist earthquake victims because its treasury has been spent in a war with neighboring Iraq and against internal opposition.
Dymally, a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, praised President Bush's offer of humanitarian aid to Iran but said Bush must make sure the assistance is channeled through non-government groups.
"It was so strong," he said.
``It's very similar to what we had in Armenia,'' he said of the Dec. 7, 1988, earthquake that killed about 25,000 people.
The earthquake that devastated Iran early Thursday took tens of thousands of lives because people were asleep in fragile homes built on flood plains, an earthquake expert said.
Mexico, which lost at least 10,000 people in a 1985 earthquake, is sending food, medical supplies and blankets, officials said Sunday.
Iran has told the United Nations that the death toll is at least 36,000, but Gobadi said his organization has received estimates closer to 100,000.
``They have been very late in assisting the people,'' he said.
