But you never can tell."; Survivors said that after the ferry hit the reef, crew members herded them to one side of the listing boat, then pushed passengers aside to get to lifeboats.
Giron Arreola also said that passengers ran to one side of the ferry while it was under tow just before the ferry sank.
A passenger ferry sank off the Caribbean coast while being towed to port, and 59 people drowned and six are missing, authorities and news reports said today.
More than 100 people were feared drowned after an overcrowded ferry sank at a river junction in southern Bangladesh, police said today.
Survivors said that after the ship struck the reef, crew members herded them to one side of the listing boat to keep it from heeling over, then pushed passengers aside to get to the lifeboats.
He said by telephone that the ferry ran out of fuel midway on a 16-mile run across the bay from Livingston to Puerto Barrios and sank after a naval patrol boat tried to tow it to port.
Police said six bodies were found in the hull of the ferry, the M.L. Sonali, and nine others were found more than a mile downstream.
"We are looking for both survivors and bodies," said Brig.
"We are looking for both survivors and bodies," said Brig.
The ferry that sank was carrying more than double its authorized capacity of 100 passengers, police said.
"They went off in a boat," passenger Abdel-A'ati Hassan, 31, said from his hospital bed in Safaga.
Authorities said the water was still rising and the submerged boat was sinking in the river bed.
Officials had yet to determine the exact cause of the sinking, but Giron Arreola said the ferry captain was slow to respond to requests by the skipper of the naval patrol boat to take control of the ferry's wheel once it was under tow.
Officials said 46 people survived the sinking of the ferry Justo Rufino Barrios II in Amatique Bay on Guatemala's east coast Sunday.
Capt. Anibal Giron Arreola, a spokesman at the Puerto Barrios naval base, said the ferry Justo Rufino Barrios II sank Sunday afternoon in Amatique Bay.
A senior government official, discussing the confidential report on condition of anonymity, said authorities believed at least 300 people on the lower deck died when the ferry overturned Saturday morning.
An official at the Puerto Barrios morgue said 13 bodies have been identified.
Three of the sailors said the boat had been taking on water over the stern in heavy seas, then capsized when it was hit by a big wave.