World leaders sent Japan messages of condolences and some declared states of mourning after Emperor Hirohito's death Saturday, but painful memories of World War II still generated criticism of the Japanese monarch.
TOKYO (AP _ Emperor Hirohito will be remembered for one overwhelming decision during his 62-year reign: Japan must bow to defeat for the first time in its history and end the Pacific conflict in World War II.
There was no official comment from the nationalist Chinese government because of the lack of diplomatic relations between Taiwan and Japan, but the mass circulation Chinese daily United Evening News said: ``Asian people who suffered from the slavery and invasion of Japan's militarists during World War II may bury their animosity with Hirohito's death.
His Majesty played a truly heroic role in bringing hostilities between our two peoples to an end,'' Reagan said, referring to Hirohito's decision to end World War II.
President Corazon Aquino of the Philippines sent condolences to the imperial family and her foreign secretary, Raul Manglapus, a Japanese prisoner of war during World War II, praised Hirohito as ``a stabilizing factor'' in the creation of a democratic Japan.
To the rest of the world, he was known as Emperor Hirohito, but in Japan his given name was seldom used.
World leaders from President Reagan to Malaysia's king mourned today's death of Emperor Hirohito, who surrendered a broken nation to the Allies in World War II but presided over its rise to economic pre-eminence.
English-language newspapers published in Japan quickly began using the name Showa for Hirohito after his death, but it did not become truly official until Jan. 31, when Emperor Akihito conducted a ceremony in which Showa became the late emperor's posthumous name.
The political and military role that Emperor Hirohito played before and during the war was never clear to us.
The death of Emperor Hirohito finished the list of political and military leaders of the World War II era, one of the darkest and bloodiest eras of history on either the European or Asian continents .
But Indonesian President Suharto cabled his condolences to Crown Prince Akihito, Hirohito's eldest son who immediately ascended the Chrysanthemum Throne, and said he will personally pay the last homage to Hirohito, presidential spokesman Moerdiono said.
The Japanese constitution, drafted by U.S. occupation forces shortly after the end of World War II in 1945, stipulates the emperor is the ``symbol of the state and the unity of the people''.
Thus 1926 became Showa 1 as Crown Prince Hirohito ascended to the throne on Dec. 25 when his father, Emperor Taisho, died.
The Imperial Household Agency, which ran his affairs, said Hirohito considered the postwar period one of the most fulfilling times of his life, in which the nation made a phenomenal recovery from a war that cost 3.1 million Japanese lives.
In the United States, President Reagan said in a statement, ``His Majesty's 62-year reign spanned one of the most tumultuous, and yet at the same time constructive eras in the history of mankind _ an age of unprecedented economic collapse, a most vicious war, astonishing scientific acheivement, and dramatic political and social changes throughout the world.
The main opposition party led by Kim Dae-jung said, ``We have complex feelings at the death of Hirohito in view of Japan's 20-year rule over Korea during his reign''.
President Reagan said Hirohito's 62-year reign ``spanned one of the most tumultuous, and yet at the same time constructive eras in the history of mankind.
``It was an irony that while Hirohito apologized to the United States and Europe for the war, he did not direct a single word to China to show his sorrow.Now, Hirohito has died.
