School officials said 60 percent of the children were Southeast Asian refugees _ either from Cambodia, Laos or Thailand.
All five of the children killed were of this background, authorities said.
A man fired several dozen shots from an automatic rifle in an elementary school Tuesday, killing six children, wounding at least 35 other people and then shooting himself in the head, authorities said.
The 26-year-old drifter with a long criminal record who launched a mute, murderous assault on a California elementary school Tuesday was described by his aunt as a loner and childhood alcoholic, police said.
Patrick E. Purdy purchased an AK-47 rifle in this Portland suburb several months ago, then returned to his hometown of Stockton, Calif., where he used the gun to kill five children and wound 29 others, along with a teacher, at Cleveland Elementary School before taking his own life, authorities said.
After the massacre at recess, the bodies of three Southeast Asian children were outlined in blue on the playground of Cleveland Elementary School where they died.
``I never thought a tragedy of this magnitude could happen in Stockton,'' said Cuevas, a 29-year-old marine clerk at the Port of Stockton who lives down the street from the elementary school.
About 60 percent of Cleveland Elementary's students are of Southeast Asian descent, said John Klose, spokesman for the Stockton School District.
On Tuesday, a 26-year-old drifter with a long crimnal record opened fire with an assault rifle at Cleveland Elementary School in Stockton, Calif., killing five children and wounding 30 other people before taking his own life.
Children at the Greenwood school will be asked to send cards to the California school, while the principal, Eleanor Rice, and Ms. Finkbeiner said they will contact officials at the Stockton school to offer encouragement.
EDUCATION: Records indicate a Patrick Edward Purdy attended Cleveland Elementary School, scene of Tuesday's shooting, through third grade, from 1969 to 1973.
Patrick Purdy, 24, opened fire outside the Cleveland Elementary School with an AK-47 semiautomatic assault rifle, firing more than 100 rounds, killing five children and wounding 29 others and one teacher.
He hated everybody,'' Perry said of Purdy, who as a child 14 years earlier had attended Cleveland School .
Patrick Edward Purdy, who turned a gun on himself after firing more than 100 rounds from an AK-47 semi-automatic assault rifle at Cleveland Elementary, where he had attended grade school, was buried Friday in an unmarked grave in a family plot at Lodi.
Stockton police said they have located all of Purdy's close relatives, except for his mother, identified as 43-year-old Kathy Snyder.
Patrick Edward Purdy, who turned a powerful assault rifle on a crowded school playground Tuesday, killing five children and wounding 29 more, had been a student at the school from kindergarten through third grade, officials said today .
"I don't understand why, and I probably won't ever know why," said Purdy's grandmother, 63-year-old Julia Chumbley, who lives nearby in Lodi.
City officials readied the city's Civic Auditorium for a Monday memorial ceremony for the families and friends of a Vietnamese student and four Cambodian pupils gunned down in the playground at Cleveland Elementary School Tuesday by armed drifter Patrick Edward Purdy, who killed himself with a single pistol shot to the head .
Ly said he was watching a news report about the massacre Tuesday morning in which five children and the gunman were killed when he spotted the picture of a 9-year-old victim he recognized as his lost son.