Hurricane Hugo struck South Carolina with renewed fury Thursday after thousands of coastal residents in southeastern states grabbed what they could carry and fled inland on jammed highways.
``This is a disaster staring us right in the eye,'' Mayor Joseph P. Riley Jr. said from his City Hall command post in Charleston, where the hurricane downed power lines, snapped trees and caused utility transformers to explode.
Hurricane-force winds first hit the coast by 9:15 p.m. EDT, and about three hours later the eye of the storm passed over the Isle of Palms just east of Charleston, said Bob Sheets, director of the National Hurricane Center in Coral Gables, Fla.
``This is a dangerous, killer hurricane, the likes of which few people who have lived all their lives in Charleston have experienced,'' warned Mayor Joseph P. Riley Jr. Hugo was the first major hurricane to strike Charleston since Hurricane Gracie came ashore 70 miles to the south in 1959.
While Hurricane Hugo's 135 mph wind roared outside, Mayor Joseph P. Riley Jr. watched the fury it vented on his beloved, 300-year-old city.
Riley, city officials and a few reporters stayed in Charleston's historic City Hall through Thursday night as the area's worst hurricane in three decades pounded the coastal city where the Civil War began.
Supercomputers, satellites and the expertise of several hurricane forecasters predicted the destructive path Hurricane Hugo would follow, giving people plenty of time to flee the South Carolina coast.
Forecasters at the National Hurricane Center used computer models to track Hugo's path into Charleston, S.C.
The storm, which caused billions in damage, claimed 17 lives in South Carolina, and only two were in the Charleston area, which bore the brunt of Hugo's 135 mph winds.
The two dominant home and automobile insurers in the Carolinas said Tuesday that they expect to be hit with about $600 million in claims from Hurricane Hugo.
State Farm Insurance Co. expects claims as high as $400 million in South Carolina, where it insures one out of every five homes, spokesman Jerry Parsons said.
The Bloomington, Ill.-based company is also projecting an additional $100 million in claims from storm damage in North Carolina and Virginia, he said .
Additionally, Nationwide Insurance Co. said it expects claims close to $100 million, more than triple the $31 million that the company paid for damages caused by Hurricane Elena when it swept through Florida, Alabama and Mississippi in 1985 .
Analysts said most of the claims will be borne by mutual insurance companies, which are owned by policyholders, but they noted that losses from Hurricane Hugo would also affect the short-term earnings of some publicly traded companies .
Ghose said Shearson may also cut its third-quarter and annual earnings projections for Cigna Corp., USF&G Corp. and Lincoln National Corp., which are expected to suffer hurricane-related losses equal to about 10% of expected full-year earnings .
HURRICANES; STORMS -- SOUTH CAROLINA; HOMEOWNERS INSURANCE; AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE; NATIONWIDE LIFE INSURANCE CO; CONTINENTAL CORP; DISASTERS; PROPERTY DAMAGE; INSURANCE CLAIMS; STORMS -- NORTH CAROLINA; STATE FARM FIRE & CASUALTY CO; STORMS -- PUERTO RICO; STORMS -- VIRGIN ISLANDS OF THE UNITED STATES
New York-based Continental Corp., which is a big insurer in Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands and South Carolinas, said it will take a $50 million pretax charge against earnings this quarter, reflecting its net exposure to the damages caused by the hurricane.
Damage from Hurricane Hugo, which stormed through the Carolinas and the Caribbean last week, will reduce third-quarter earnings for several insurers.
State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Co. said its State Fire & Casualty Co. unit estimates claim payments from Hugo will exceed $400 million in South Carolina alone, far surpassing the company's record payout for a single disaster.