The lens cover on the Hubble Space Telescope opened today after a morning of worrisome problems, and Mission Control told the Discovery astronauts they no longer are needed to rescue the $1.5 billion instrument.
It is named for the late astronomer Edwin P. Hubble, whose discovery during the 1920s that the universe is expanding gave rise to the Big Bang theory that the universe was created by a tremendous explosion 10 billion to 20 billion years ago .
``It's a beautiful day to have Hubble Space Telescope in orbit instead of here on Earth like it's been for so many years,'' said NASA administrator Richard Truly.
Space shuttle Discovery trailed 57 miles behind the telescope and was to stay nearby until the Hubble's aperture door was opened, set for Friday morning.
NASA said it may release its first telescope image from Hubble _ of an open star cluster in the constellation Carina _ as early as that same day.
Ground controllers at the Goddard Space Flight Center finally made contact today with the two main antennas on the $1.5 billion Hubble Space Telescope after trying for more than six hours to lock on.
The telescope, named for the late astronomer Edwin P. Hubble, will enable astronomers over its 15-year working lifetime to look back 14 billion years and possibly determine the age of the universe.
``Precisely one day after lifting off from Launch Pad 39B at Kennedy Space Center, the Hubble Space Telescope is ready to fly on its own,'' Mission Control's Jeffrey Carr said.
From its orbit high above Earth's distorting atmosphere, the telescope will enable astronomers over its 15-year working lifetime to look back 14 billion years and possibly determine the age of the universe.
The shuttle trailed 50 miles behind Hubble when the aperture door opened 380 miles above Earth, but passed 3.7 miles beneath the telescope later in the day.
The space shuttle Discovery, which carried the telescope to orbit, was 50 miles behind the telescope, ready to lend a hand if needed.
Astronomers expect to look back 14 billion years with the space telescope .
Landing would have been delayed a day if astronauts Bruce McCandless and Kathryn Sullivan had had to perform a space walk to crank open the telescope's lens cover, or aperture door.
In an orbit high enough to avoid Earth's distorting atmosphere, Hubble will allow astronomers to study stars and galaxies so distant their light has taken 14 billion years to reach Earth.
The shuttle will follow Hubble from 40 miles away in case a problem develops and the telescope must be retrieved and returned to Earth.
After Wednesday's deployment, Shriver gently backed Discovery away from the telescope and put the shuttle through a series of maneuvers, the last one completed this morning, to ``park'' Discovery in orbit 46 miles behind Hubble.
``You've been released from Hubble support; it's on its own,'' Mission Control told the astronauts when the aluminum aperture door opened.
The telescope's big eye has remained open, but Hubble had been in a ``safe mode'' with all motion stopped because of earlier problems in linking the high-speed dish antennas with a relay satellite.
