'Running a marathon is the easy part,' he says.
The race was won by the Unified Team's Valentina Yegorova in 2 hours 32 minutes, a time considerably slower than that achieved by women on less demanding Olympic marathon courses in Los Angeles and Seoul.
And that may yet transform this race, if -- as marathon President Bill Burke said this week -- the total purse of $202,520 is increased by $100,000 next year and significantly more money is added for appearance fees to lure top athletes .
RUNNING; ADVERTISING; TELEVISION BROADCASTS; LOS ANGELES MARATHON; MARATHONS; SPONSORS; MARKETING; LOS ANGELES TIMES; MERCEDES BENZ OF NORTH AMERICA INC
Massive marketing campaigns and major sponsors lining up for a seat on the money wagon do not make L. A. an elite race, give it prestige or attract the world's best runners.
'To put on the marathon in the late afternoon, rather than first thing in the morning (the normal practice), and then to make them run 4km up a hill is just criminal in my opinion,' said Brasher, a former Olympic gold medal athlete and noted sportswriter.
Last Saturday, in the Olympic stadium, I watched the final moments and aftermath of the women's marathon, begun at the same time of day and run in similar conditions.
I spoke to Britain's Steve Brace, winner of the Paris marathon in 1989 and 1990, the Berlin marathon last year and a competitor in the Barcelona event.
Television watchers of the 19th annual New York City Marathon followed the step-by-step progress Sunday of the leaders, but many spectators on the course scanned the thousands of runners for a familar face.
Try to think of Sunday's Los Angeles Marathon less as a "happening," which it surely is; or a world-class athletic event, which it may become but is not now .
The winner of the London marathon earns a tidy Dollars 50,000 and the New York, Boston and Japanese runs are all in the same prize-winning category.
The Times is one of the race's more generous sponsors.
With their careers and financial prospects in mind, top-level runners normally only run two marathons a year.
But the Olympic marathon is an exception: the only top-level marathon that carries no prize money.
The race depends on sponsors for the bulk of its operating budget, which supports a year-round full-time staff.
He agrees that the run will be highly demanding, and while he regards Olympic marathon running as a pinnacle of his career, he is cautious about tomorrow's slog.
"It's a beautiful course, and this was a great marathon," one runner told race director Lynn Flanagan .
Smith earlier this year ran the Long Beach Marathon, where she finished seventh but has been concentrating on this distance for just a year.
