An excerpt from the book, ``The Lives of John Lennon'' by journalist and biographer Albert Goldman, appearing in the Aug. 15 issue of People magazine, discloses a sometimes unflattering portrait of both Lennon and his second wife, Yoko Ono.
A biography that portrays John Lennon as a drug-addled, anorexic bisexual who raged his way from Liverpool to New York City is ``totally fiction,'' Yoko Ono said in a national radio broadcast.
It's a very dramatically described something, but it's not about John,'' Ono said Wednesday night in her first broadcast comments on the book by Albert Goldman.
Those attacks don't really bother him, unless they come from someone who hasn't read ``The Lives of John Lennon,'' Goldman said.
They hear Albert Goldman, John Lennon, homosexuality _ bang, let him have it! I resent people commenting on a book they haven't read, including Yoko,'' the author said.
The biography by Albert Goldman, ``The Lives of John Lennon,'' depicts the former Beatle as an anorexic bisexual addled by drugs who raged his way from Liverpool to New York.
It's not John and me,'' Ono said in the taped radio broadcast.
_ John Lennon .
Watching the new movie, ``Imagine: John Lennon,'' was very painful for the late Beatle's wife, Yoko Ono.
``I think this is really the definitive documentary of John Lennon's life,'' Ono said in an interview.
Lennon's half sister, Julia Baird, also has written a new book, ``John Lennon, My Brother''.
Also shown the door was Albert Goldman, whose sordid biography, ``The Lives of John Lennon,'' hit bookstores about the same time as Baird's book.
``It is right that a world figure like Lennon should be recognized at last,'' said Coleman, author of ``John Lennon''.
Lennon and his wife, Yoko Ono, were returning to their apartment in New York's Dakota apartment building after a recording session on Dec. 8, 1980, when Lennon was shot to death by Mark David Chapman, a deranged fan to whom Lennon had given his autograph only hours before.
Marketing an icon; Since his death in 1980, Ono has steadily kept Lennon products coming out: the albums "Milk and Honey" and "Menlove Avenue" and the 4-CD boxed set "The John Lennon Collection"; the book "Skywriting by Word of Mouth," a collection of Lennon's unpublished writings; Lennon's art, which Ono says was his main interest in his final years; and Lennon-inspired merchandise, such as a line of John Lennon eyeglasses.
I think that's natural."; Many of the books that have been written about Lennon and the Beatles, especially Albert Goldman's loathing portrait of Lennon, have been painful to Ono.
Goldman's John Lennon is even worse than John Lennon's John Lennon.
Lennon's every move.