Gorbachev said the coup leaders demanded that he resign.
He named a new acting KGB chief, interior minister and defense minister, and said he would do everything to "drive out the reactionary forces from the Communist Party."; Gorbachev pledged cooperation with Russian republic President Boris Yeltsin but said he had no plans to leave the Communist Party.
Although Bessmertnykh said he had refused to go along with the coup leaders, Gorbachev said he had information that his top diplomat had been "maneuvering, or at least did not take a firm stand."; Bessmertnykh reacted with "bitterness," according to the Tass news agency, and claimed that he had refused to join the conservative uprising, even though coup leader and former KGB chief Vladimir Kryuchkov had told him, "We need a liberal among us."; In both Moscow and Leningrad, city officials ordered police to seal off Communist Party headquarters.
Yeltsin addressed the Russian parliament today and said the Soviet Union had just "gone through a most tragic moment in its history, and perhaps the most tragic moment."; Gorbachev's foreign minister, Alexander Bessmertnykh, who had dropped out of sight during the coup, reappeared today and called the takeover a page in Soviet history that "has got to be turned."; The national legislature invalidated all decrees made by the coup leaders, national lawmaker Yuri Karyakin told the Russian legislature.
Yeltsin has been a strong foe of Communist Party influence in the country; Gorbachev, however, warned in his speech against "any kind of anti-Communist hysteria."; Yeltsin often commented during Gorbachev's speech, and Gorbachev deferred to him several times on details of what happened during Gorbachev's detention.
Traitors!"; Gorbachev and Yeltsin, the Russian Federation leader who saved Gorbachev, met today for the first time since the coup collapsed to discuss the takeover and deal with officials who backed the putsch.
It called the takeover unconstitutional and demanded a meeting with Gorbachev, the party chief, the official news agency Tass said.
In the United States, President Bush hailed Gorbachev's return to power and said the coup leaders had "underestimated the power of the people, underestimated what a taste of freedom and democracy brings."; The three-day coup, one of the most tumultuous developments in recent Soviet history, unraveled in a series of swift and dramatic developments today:; (check) Tanks and armored personnel carriers moved away from the Russian parliament, scene of the worst violence of the coup.
As Gorbachev and Yeltsin met, a crowd of about 1,000 people headed toward the Communist Party headquarters in Moscow, saying they wanted to capture and preserve records that might prove the party supported the coup.
Gorbachev also told the Russian Federation parliamentarians that the leaders of the hard-line coup had sought to arrest Yeltsin.
"The president of Russia, Yeltsin . . . was to be arrested, that is how I understood it," Gorbachev said, adding the coup plotters intended to isolate Yeltsin.
Copyright 1991, San Jose Mercury News
As the face of the Soviet government continued to change in the aftermath of the failed coup, hundreds of angry residents marched toward Communist Party headquarters in Moscow intent on proving the party was behind the coup.
At the news conference -- Gorbachev's first since the coup against him collapsed on Wednesday -- the 60-year-old leader condemned the takeover as being against "the people, against democracy."; Earlier, he told reporters he would have killed himself rather than submit to any forced arrangement with the coup leaders.
In in his speech to the Russian Federation parliament, Gorbachev said of Bessmertnykh "this morning I got information that at least he was trying to maneuver or worse" during the coup attempt.
Gorbachev said the leaders of the junta "tried to turn us all into chopped meat" and they should be prosecuted without "hesitation or forgiveness."; Soviet Prime Minister Valetin Pavlov has been arrested for helping to lead the coup, Soviet and Russian television reported today.
Some of the demonstrators chanted, "Down with the Communist Party!"; Yeltsin, who had led the nationwide resistance to the coup, announced a ban on Communist Party activities in the Russian republic, the army, police units of the Interior Ministry and the KGB, which for decades helped enforce Communist rule.
The actions by Yeltsin, who quit the party last summer, came amid a growing wave of anger at the Communist Party, six of whose top party officials were arrested for instigating the coup.
