Like Thursday's earthquake in Iran, the Dec. 7, 1988, earthquake in Armenia killed about 25,000 people.
At least 25,000 people died and thousands were injured in the quake, which demolished scores of villages and buried thousands of people in the rubble of their homes, Iranian officials said.
Iran said today that it would welcome relief offered by its bitter enemy, the United States, to help victims of the earthquake that has killed as many as 35,000 people, the State Department said in Washington .
``It's very similar to what we had in Armenia,'' he said of the Dec. 7, 1988, earthquake that killed about 25,000 people.
Countries worldwide, both friendly and hostile to Tehran's Islamic government, sent supplies, medical personnel and condolences to Iran, where about 40,000 people have died in an earthquake.
``There were many, many victims before this tragedy and there are victims now whose needs need to be addressed by the people of the United States,'' he said.
``The regime is very much fearful of public outrage,'' said Shahin Gobadi, spokesman for the People's Mojahedin of Iran.
Iran has told the United Nations that the death toll is at least 36,000, but Gobadi said his organization has received estimates closer to 100,000.
The State Department said Friday that Iran was willing to accept earthquake relief from the American Red Cross and other U.S. humanitarian organizations .
Iran's deadliest earthquake since 1976 jolted the northern part of the country Thursday, devastating towns and injuring at least 100,000 people.
The earthquake that devastated Iran early Thursday took tens of thousands of lives because people were asleep in fragile homes built on flood plains, an earthquake expert said.
Gobadi said the country cannot properly assist earthquake victims because its treasury has been spent in a war with neighboring Iraq and against internal opposition.
An anti-American newspaper in Iran said Sunday the United States is partly to blame for the death of tens of thousands of people in last week's earthquake.
The quake hit at 12:30 a.m. in Iran, when most of the people were in their homes, Needham said Thursday in a telephone interview from Golden, Colo.
Dymally, a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, praised President Bush's offer of humanitarian aid to Iran but said Bush must make sure the assistance is channeled through non-government groups.
The earthquake that struck northern Iran brought reminders of another quake that devastated Soviet Armenia in 1988.
China's Red Cross said it was sending $106,000 worth of relief supplies, state-run television said Saturday.
Thousands of residents in the predominantly Moslem Soviet republic of Azerbaijan, which borders Iran, donated tons of flour, rice and tea, and contributed more than $500,000 to a special earthquake fund, Tass said.
