Chinese troops stormed Tiananmen Square early Sunday, shooting and beating their way through crowds of pro-democracy protesters in clashes that witnesses and doctors said killed at least 32 people.
The square was in darkness.
Thousands fled from the square, where hundreds of thousands of people had gathered to support students in the third week of a sit-in.
A government loudspeaker on the square charged the students with ``counterrevolutionary turmoil'' and said the military was taking necessary means to end their rebellion.
Most of those shot on the square were hurling rocks at the troops and people close to their front lines.
_ National television repeats martial law regulations and warns people to stay off the streets and away from Tiananmen Square.
The battle for Tiananmen was primarily fought in the streets leading to the square, where scores of people fell trying to prevent columns of troops and armored military vehicles from moving on the students.
May 13 _ About 2,000 students begin a hunger strike in Tiananmen Square.
``This will disturb the United States government, and will disturb the American people, considerably,'' he said.
Here is a chronology of events that began Saturday in Tiananmen Square: 1 a.m. Saturday (12 noon EDT Friday) _ Tens of thousands of troops enter Beijing from the east marching toward Tiananmen Square, China's symbolic political heart.
At 4:30 a.m., armored personnel carriers entered the square and troops began moving slowly toward several thousand students clustered around a monument to revolutionary heroes in the center.
The troops cut a violent swath through the heart of Beijing to get to the the square, rolling through barricades and surging masses on the surrounding streets.
June 3-4 _ Tens of thousands of troops make several attempts to move on the square but are driven back by crowds of hundreds of thousands of people supporting the students.
_ More than 20,000 people block a 26-truck convoy about 2 miles east of the square and thousands of others converge on the square to protect students demanding demoncratic reforms.
_ The main body of troops is stopped several hundred yards east of the vast square by thousands of people.
_ About 5,000 troops emerge from Great Hall of the People on the western side of the square and are surrounded by crowds.
Long live democracy''! April 27 _ More than 150,000 students, with wide support from people on the street, surge past police lines and fill Tiananmen Square, chanting slogans for democracy and freedom.
12 noon _ Two truckloads of People's Armed Police attack crowds outside Beijing Hotel east of the square and up to 30 people injured.
