The Soviet leader told a meeting of the Communist Party leadership that inter-ethnic relations were worsening in some regions of the country, due in part to ``active resistance put up to perestroika by corrupt groups''.
Gorbachev outlined the reasons for a ``current aggravation'' of tensions between ethnic groups in some regions of the Soviet Union, Tass said.
Tass said Gorbachev made other proposals on how to resolve ethnic tensions, including an increase in power for each of the country's 15 republics, a law on ``equal use'' of the more than 100 languages spoken in the Soviet Union and some economic autonomy for the country's republics and regions.
The government has decided to give ethnic Germans and Crimean Tatars who were expelled from their homelands by Josef Stalin their own autonomous regions but it will take years, Tass reported Wednesday.
Ethnic violence killed 148 people and wounded 885 this month in the Central Asian republic of Kirghizia, the official news agency Tass said Wednesday.
Maj. Gen. Alexander Grienko, chief of the Interior Ministry's Political Department, said that in two years of civil strife _ mainly ethnic clashes _ in the Soviet Union, about 24,000 people have been arrested.
He said in Moscow on Tuesday that ministry troops had to be used in 13 regions of the Soviet Union because of such outbreaks, Tass said.
Moldavia, acting to defuse one of the Soviet Union's most explosive ethnic conflicts, agreed Sunday to comply with a Kremlin order to reconsider its law making Moldavian the republic's official language.
[Text] Dushanbe 16 May TASS -- The Tajik Communist Party has called for the restoration of a renovated Soviet Union in the form of a federation as the only means to ensure the development of the political, economic, and spiritual potential of former Soviet republics.
TROOPS OF the former Soviet Union were ordered to pull out from the Armenian enclave of Nagorno-Karabakh yesterday after they were fired on during clashes between Azeri and Armenian militants.
RUSSIA and Georgia yesterday deployed 'blue helmet' troops to stop ethnic fighting in the disputed region of South Ossetia in the first peace-keeping operation since the collapse of the Soviet Union, Reuter reports from Moscow.
Reports from the former Soviet republic of Moldova said several people had been killed overnight in fresh ceasefire violations between government forces and separatists.
Russia and Georgia were cautiously optimistic that Ossetia could be the first region of the former Soviet Union where armed conflict could be resolved with the help of 'political measures and actions'.
The international community is starting to look beyond the conflict in the former Yugoslavia, and is becoming increasingly aware of the true magnitude and seriousness of ethnic and political conflicts in the former Soviet Union.
One of the ways in which we can help prevent conflicts is to strengthen the democratic institutions in the newly independent countries of the former Soviet Union.
Soviet President Mikhail S. Gorbachev warned the nation Saturday night that the country's growing ethnic strife is endangering its unity as a state as well as threatening his program of political and economic reforms .
With serious ethnic clashes in Soviet Central Asia over the past month, with troops needed to maintain the peace in the southern republics of Armenia, Azerbaijan and Georgia and with nationalism growing stronger in the Baltic republics of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania, Gorbachev is struggling to hold the Soviet Union together as a state while he pushes broad reforms that he believes will resolve most of the grievances .
The Soviet Union's ethnic groups have "a common destiny," Gorbachev said .