A representative of the African National Congress said Saturday the South African government may release black nationalist leader Nelson Mandela as early as Tuesday.
``There are very strong rumors in South Africa today that on Nov. 15 Nelson Mandela will be released,'' said Yusef Saloojee, chief representative in Canada for the ANC, which is fighting to end white-minority rule in South Africa.
Four imprisoned African National Congress leaders, convicted in 1964 with Nelson Mandela, were allowed to visit their ANC colleague at his isolated prison house, an activist said today.
They hung a banner from the second floor of the law library that said: ``Honor Nelson Mandela''.
A 3-year campaign that has succeeded in getting Northeastern University to award an honorary degree to jailed South African nationalist leader Nelson Mandela has raised objections from some faculty and students.
Before he was imprisoned, said third-year law student Sarah Ottinger, ``Nelson Mandela was an ...
And a prominent anti-apatheid activist in South Africa said there has been ``no indication (Mandela) would be released today or in the near future''.
Mandela the 70-year-old leader of the ANC jailed 27 years ago, was sentenced to life in prison for conspiring to overthrow the South African government.
Since then, it has been widely rumored Mandela will be released by Christmas in a move to win strong international support for the South African government.
Mrs. Mandela-Amuah said of her father's possible release, ``I always firmly believe that you can't predict what the South African government will do.''
The arrival Wednesday of African National Congress leader Nelson Mandela prompted an outpouring of praise and encouragement from politicians and supporters.
She said, ``He (Nelson Mandela) believes that education is the key to all doors and he would like to see all of his children get an education; in fact all of the black children ...
The largest family group to visit black leader Nelson Mandela since he was jailed 27 years ago gathered in Cape Town for a meeting Tuesday with the prisoner on his 71st birthday.
Mandela, leader of the African National Congress, will visit eight cities from June 20 to July 1.
Mrs. Mandela showed reporters a huge cardboard birthday card in the black, green and yellow colors of the outlawed African National Congress, the largest guerrilla group fighting the government.
South Africa's white-minority government says it will free Mandela only if he renounces the use of violence by forces seeking political power for blacks in the country.
Mayor David Dinkins warned Jewish groups against protesting the visit of anti-apartheid leader Nelson Mandela to New York City, saying the protests might insult the black community, a newspaper said today.
Evelyn Ntoko Mase, the cousin of ANC leader Walter Sisulu who has been imprisoned with Mandela, married Nelson Mandela in 1944.
