If the drought in the United States ended now, grain production would fall close to the low levels of 1983, when a drought and farmers' participation in a government crop reduction program decreased output, the agency reported.
He said information will be compiled and updated regularly .
Kentucky's governor has criticized the federal government for being too slow in dealing with the drought, and Iowa's governor warns that farmers in his state still face potential disaster despite up to five inches of rain over the weekend.
Moreover, on July 2, about 35 percent of the contiguous United States was in the ``severe to extreme'' drought category, he said.
The State Agricultural Statistics Service said North Dakota farmers will abandon 31 percent of their spring wheat this year and harvest the smallest crop in 19 years because of the drought.
Heavy rain deluged some drought-hit areas as Congress began working on a package of relief for America's farmers, and farmers in Kentucky today greeted the arrival of the first shipment of hay airlifted free from Oregon.
``Because of the large early season area now experiencing drought in the U.S., 1988 appears to have the potential to approach or exceed the drought-affected areas of the 1930s and 1950s,'' Lyng said.
The drought may force the government to ease crop acreage controls next year to help the United States rebuild its grain inventories, Agriculture Secretary Richard E. Lyng said Monday.
Even with the severe drought, there will be an adequate supply of food grains and livestock feed grains so that the United States ``will be able to take care of our domestic needs and our export demand,'' he said.
Gov. Paul Leonard, who heads a state drought task force, said he would not advocate statewide mandatory water restrictions but said local governments should have the authority to impose restrictions where necessary.
But the United States will continue to be a major player in world agriculture and in 1989 should be able to bounce back from this year's drought losses, he said Monday.
State Agriculture Director Roy Frederick said Nebraska farmers probably will have better crops than are expected nationwide and may benefit from higher prices.
Meanwhile, House Speaker Jim Wright said in Washington he hopes that a relief package with disaster payments of up to $100,000 for drought-stricken farmers will win committee approval and be ready for floor action in Congress this week .
But the United States ``will continue to be a major player'' in world agriculture and in 1989 ``should be able to bounce back'' from this year's drought losses, he said.
As a result, world grain stocks are projected to fall below 310 million tons, or 17 percent of the level the agency considers necessary to safeguard world food security, the report said.
A new climate assessment of the ongoing drought said ``many areas now experiencing extreme drought have less than a 4 percent chance of recovering from the drought within 3 months''.
The crippling drought hitting North America is expected to reduce world grain stocks to levels that may cause food shortages in many poor countries, the U.N.
``Everything looks so good with a bit of rain over the past 24 hours,'' farmer Herman Krone said Tuesday at his 2,800-acre farm in southern Illinois, which President Reagan plans to visit Thursday during a tour of the drought-stricken area.
