CAUSE OF CONFLICT: President Saddam Hussein of Iraq accused Kuwait of stealing oil from its territory and forcing down oil prices through overproduction.
``The Iraqi government firmly believes and states that Iraq is pursuing no goal or objective and wishes only cordial relations with Kuwait.
He froze Iraq's assets in the United States and blocked almost all Iraqi imports, including oil.
Aug. 1 _ Iraq pulls out of talks on the 2-week-old border, oil and money dispute with Kuwait shortly before it sends its forces to invade the oil-rich sheikdom.
July 17 _ Iraqi President Saddam Hussein accuses Kuwait and the United Arab Emirates of flooding the oil market and driving prices down, and that the move cost Iraq $14 billion in lost oil revenue.
Here are some quotes on Iraq's invasion of Kuwait:
He further charges that Arab states in the Persian Gulf are conspiring with the United States and Israel to weaken Iraq's economy and undermine its military buildup.
The order also froze Kuwait property under U.S. jurisdiction _ a move intended to keep Iraq from seizing it.
An Iraqi airways jet carrying 78 foreigners and a number of Iraqi citizens arrived today, the first commercial flight allowed out of Iraq since it invaded Kuwait, a Japanese Embassy spokesman said.
Hitting Baghdad where it hurts, more countries have joined a U.N.-sanctioned boycott of oil from Iraq and Kuwait.
It noted that Kuwait had blindly supported Iraq, ``little knowing that it was feeding a wild beast in her own neighborhood''.
IRAQ -- FOREIGN RELATIONS -- KUWAIT; MILITARY CONFRONTATIONS; OIL INDUSTRY -- KUWAIT; OIL INDUSTRY -- IRAQ; UNITED STATES -- FOREIGN RELATIONS -- IRAQ; IRAQ -- BORDERS -- KUWAIT
July 18 _ Iraq accuses Kuwait of stealing $2.4 billion worth of oil from wells along the disputed border with Iraq and of seeking to wreck Iraq's economy by overproducing oil and thus pushing down prices.
Kuwait, after all, reflagged tankers in the United States during the Iran-Iraq war, ushering in the reason for the arrival of the U.S.
THE INVASION: Iraq's troops, led by about 350 tanks, crossed the border at dawn Thursday, and seized the Kuwaiti palace and government buildings 40 miles away.
Saddam's overthrow of the emir of Kuwait changed all that.
THE FORCES: Iraq, a country of more than 17 million, has the Arab world's most battle-trained army, and had massed more than 100,000 soldiers on the Kuwaiti border.
Jordan's borders with Iraq had been closed from the Iraqi side since Thursday morning, when Iraq invaded Kuwait.
