Information from the State Flood Control and Drought Relief Headquarters revealed that the flood peak on the Xijiang River today reached Guangdong Province.
By eight o'clock yesterday morning, a peak flood water level of 25.91 m [meters] was recorded at the flood monitoring station of Guangxi's Wuzhou city, 10.91 m above the danger level.
The flood peak on the Beijiang River in Guangdong Province passed through Qingyuan city by 23:00 hours last night, and the water level was recorded as 14.72 m, about 4.22 m above the danger mark; the speed was 17,400 cu m per second.
At 11 o'clock on Saturday, the flood peak on the Xiangjiang River passed through Changsha city, capital of central China's Hunan Province.
The State Flood Control and Drought Relief Headquarters has sent special teams of people to help fight floods in Hunan and Jiangxi.
They expressed the hope that under the leadership of the Guangdong provincial party committee and government, the Guangdong army and people would make concerted efforts in disaster relief; earnestly help flood victims solve their living problems; and go all out to battle floods to ensure the safety of the Bei Jiang dike, Guangzhou city, and the Zhu Jiang Delta .
BFN [Text] Beijing, 21 Jun (XINHUA) -- According to the State Flood Control and Drought Relief Headquarters, after the largest or the second largest flood peaks since the liberation of China occurred a few days ago in the Xi Jiang, Bei Jiang, Xiang Jiang, and Gan Jiang rivers, water levels in these rivers are dropping slowly; however, high water levels will remain in these rivers for the next few days.
A flood peak occured in Bei Jiang in Guangdong's Sanshui at 0400 on 20 June, raising the water level to 10.39 meters -- the largest flood level ever recorded.
The flood peak passed Changsha on 19 June, but the water level at the Changsha Station was still at 25 meters at 0200 today [1800 GMT 20 June].
Comrade Wen Jiabao fully affirmed the initial victories that the two cities have scored in their flood fighting and relief work under the leadership of the provincial party committee and government.
Governor Chen Bangzhu urged the party committees and governments of Zhuzhou and Xiangtan to convey Comrade Wen Jiabao's regards and instructions on behalf of the party Central Committee and the State Council for the broad masses of cadres and people to the party committees and governments at all levels as soon as possible, earnestly implement them, and effectively carry out the work of fighting floods, doing relief work, and helping oneself by engaging in production .
BFN [Text] Guangzhou, June 23 (XINHUA) -- The highest flood peaks on the Xijiang and Beijiang Rivers have passed, said Zhu Senlin, governor of south China's Guangdong Province.
While inspecting flood control and relief work in Qingyuan city on the Beijiang River yesterday, he attributed Guangdong's success in combating this flood -- almost the biggest in 100 years -- to concerted efforts by the armymen stationed in Guangdong and local residents.
This morning, Provincial Party Committee Secretary Wang Maolin, provincial Governor Chen Bangzhu, and some other provincial party and government leaders arrived here in Changshayuan, on the front line of the province's flood resistance effort, to direct the fight against the flooding.
reporter Wu Huaguo (0702 5478 0948)] [Text] Nanchang, 24 Jun (XINHUA) -- A central work team led Wen Jiabao, alternate member of the CPC Central Committee Political Bureau and member of the CPC Central Committee Secretariat, arrived in Jiangxi from Hunan this morning to provide on-the-spot guideance for Jiangxi to conduct flood-fighting and relief work and to resume industrial and agricultural production.
The same evening, Wen Jiabao and his party earnestly listened to reports by the Jiangxi Provincial Party Committee and government on Jiangxi's flood situation and its flood-fighting and relief work.
Wen Jiabao pointed out: At present, the Ganjiang River's water-level is declining, but the Jiangxi Provincial Party Committee and government are still facing very arduous tasks.
BFN [Text] Beijing, June 26 (XINHUA) -- Floods have all receded along Xijiang, Beijiang, Xiangjiang and Ganjiang except at a section of the Xijiang River in Wuzhou city, Guangxi, a spokesman from the State Flood Control and Drought Relief Headquarters announced today.
While inspecting flood control and relief work in Jiangxi Province, through which the Ganjiang flows, Wen Jiabao, alternate member of the Political Bureau and member of the Secretariat of the CPC Central Committee, said the flooded areas should work hard to mitigate losses through their own efforts and with support from various departments.