for Kuwait ...
Saudi Arabia, an oil-rich ally of Kuwait, has been subdued in its reaction to Iraq's invasion of Kuwait.
Saudi Arabia has been subdued in its reaction to Iraq's invasion of Kuwait, which places Iraqi forces near the oil-rich kingdom's border.
In a statement carried by the Iraqi News Agency on Sunday, the Iraqi-installed military government of Kuwait warned other nations not to take ``punishing measures'' against it or Iraq.
Neither Kuwait nor Iraq is on the 15-member council.
Saudi Arabia borders Kuwait and Iraq's invasion forces were reportedly near the Saudi border.
The executives said the Saudis believe this would give Iraq's belligerent president, Saddam Hussein, an excuse to attack and occupy Saudi oil fields 150 miles south of Kuwait, giving Iraq control of more oil than any other country in the world.
The Iraq-Kuwait crisis broke out on July 17 when Iraqi President Saddam Hussein accused Kuwait and the United Arab Emirates of driving down oil prices by exceeding quotas set for them by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries.
Two weeks ago, President Saddam Hussein of Iraq threatened military action with Kuwait over its violation of OPEC oil production ceilings and a disputed border oil field.
The United States has warned Iraq against any attack on Saudi Arabia, and President Bush has said all options are open for the United States .
Diplomats reported that Iraq had massed 100,000 troops on Kuwait's border.
Oil executives said Saudi Arabia has not and will not take the most potent action possible against Iraq _ closing the pipeline that carries Iraqi oil for export across Saudi Arabia to the Red Sea.
In Kuwait, the Iraqi-installed provisional government, in a statement carried by the Iraqi News Agency, told other countries to refrain from taking ``punishing measures'' against it or Iraq.
The Security Council resolution said the council supports all efforts for negotiations between Iraq and Kuwait.
Saudi Arabia was also one of the 14 members of the 21-member Arab League that condemned the invasion in the same terms as the Gulf Cooperation Council.
In an emergency session just hours after Thursday's invasion, the Security Council condemned Iraq's invasion, demanded immediate and unconditional troop withdrawal, and called for negotiations between Iraq and Kuwait.
Kuwait's U.S. ambassador said the Iraqis occupied all government buildings in the capital and were moving south toward the country's oil facilities.
The executives said the Saudis realize this would give the belligerent Saddam an excuse to attack and occupy the Saudi oil fields 150 miles south of Kuwait, giving Iraq control of more oil than any other country in the world.
