There were no casualties, he said.
A freighter carrying a cargo of beer sank in the North Sea today off the Dutch coast and all nine crew members were rescued from life rafts, a coast guard spokesman said.
The remains of the wooden sailing ship were found near the island of Chios in the eastern Aegean at a point where historical accounts place the sinking of the Ottoman ship, according to Peter Nicolaides, a diver and salvage expert.
Papathanassopoulos said the 162-foot water depth at the site will make investigation difficult since underwater archaeology rarely is attempted at depths over 113 feet, but he said, ``This is a ship that must be explored''.
The coast guard official, who spoke in a Dutch radio interview, identified the ship involved as the Finnish-registered freighter Ra and said it had been carrying a cargo of beer.
``They're going to have to move it,'' said Coast Guard spokeswoman Veronica Cady.
It was not immediately clear what had caused the sinking 29 miles off the Dutch island of Ameland, according to the coast guard spokesman, who was not identified.
The 23 sailors from the Star of Alexandria were found on a lifeboat and picked up by the merchant ship Ravenscraig, Coast Guard Petty Officer Randy Midgett said in New York.
He pinpointed the wreck on May 3, he said.
They were taken ashore by a West German helicopter from the island of Borkum, about 30 miles from the site of the sinking, the official said.
The two missing sailors were believed to be on a life raft, which was the object of a hunt Monday evening by the 950-foot Ravenscraig and five Navy and Coast Guard search planes, officials said.
Earlier reports had said that the ship was a passenger ferry, possibly one of the Dutch ships plying the frequent ferry lanes between the coastal islands and the Dutch mainland.
Interior Minister Karl Blecha, like Gratz a onetime protege of former Chancellor Bruno Kreisky, resigned Jan.19. Blecha and Gratz have denied wrongdoing or aiding Udo Proksch, the prime suspect in the sinking of the ship Lucona in the Indian Ocean.
An Argentine supply ship that ran aground off Antarctica sank Tuesday in heavy seas and high winds, the government said, and there was concern oil in its hold could leak and damage the environment.
The ship had been carrying supplies including jet fuel, gasoline and canisters of compressed gases to the Argentine Esperanza station near the tip of the Antarctic Peninsula, the National Science Foundation said in a statement released in Washington.
``When I dived, I found ships' timbers sticking out of the muddy seabed and dozens of objects _ Islamic cooking pots, cannon balls, a candlestick, even a chalice from a Greek Orthodox church,'' he said.
He said the wreckage indicated the vessel was at least 100 feet in length.
The Star of Alexandria was not spotted, and was presumed to be sinking or sunk, Midgett said.
