Hurricane Gilbert swept toward the Dominican Republic Sunday, and the Civil Defense alerted its heavily populated south coast to prepare for high winds, heavy rains and high seas.
The storm was approaching from the southeast with sustained winds of 75 mph gusting to 92 mph.
Tropical Storm Gilbert formed in the eastern Caribbean and strengthened into a hurricane Saturday night.
The National Hurricane Center in Miami reported its position at 2 a.m. Sunday at latitude 16.1 north, longitude 67.5 west, about 140 miles south of Ponce, Puerto Rico, and 200 miles southeast of Santo Domingo.
The National Weather Service in San Juan, Puerto Rico, said Gilbert was moving westward at 15 mph with a ``broad area of cloudiness and heavy weather'' rotating around the center of the storm.
Hurricane Gilbert, packing 110 mph winds and torrential rain, moved over this capital city today after skirting Puerto Rico, Haiti and the Dominican Republic.
``Right now it's actually moving over Jamaica,'' said Bob Sheets, director of the National Hurricane Center in Miami.
Meanwhile, Havana Radio reported today that 25,000 people were evacuated from Guantanamo Province on Cuba's southeastern coast as strong winds fanning out from Gilbert began brushing the island.
``It's certainly one of the larger systems we've seen in the Caribbean for a long time,'' said Hal Gerrish, forecaster at the National Hurricane Center.
Maximum sustained winds were near 110 mph, with tropical-storm force winds extending up to 250 miles to the north and 100 miles to the south.
Heavy rain and stiff winds downed power lines and caused flooding in the Dominican Republic on Sunday night as the hurricane's center passed just south of the Barahona peninsula, then less than 100 miles from neighboring Haiti.
A National Weather Service report said the hurricane was moving west at 17 mph with maximum sustained winds of 115 mph.
Hurricane warnings were issued Monday for the south coast of Cuba east of Camaguey, the Cayman Islands, and Haiti, while warnings were discontinued for the Dominican Republic.
The storm killed 19 people in Jamaica and five in the Dominican Republic before moving west to Mexico.
The National Hurricane Center said a hurricane watch was in effect on the Texas coast from Brownsville to Port Arthur and along the coast of northeast Mexico from Tampico north.
The National Hurricane Center said Gilbert was the most intense storm on record in terms of barometric pressure.
Hurricane Gilbert swept toward Jamaica yesterday with 100-mile-an-hour winds, and officials issued warnings to residents on the southern coasts of the Dominican Republic, Haiti and Cuba.
Forecasters said the hurricane was gaining strength as it passed over the ocean and would dump heavy rain on the Dominican Republic and Haiti as it moved south of Hispaniola, the Caribbean island they share, and headed west.