Most San Francisco-area homeowners may have to pay for damage from Tuesday's earthquake out of their own pockets, while insurance companies may reap long-term benefits from higher rates, industry spokesmen and analysts said Wednesday.
Only 15 percent to 20 percent of California homeowners have earthquake insurance, which typically requires a 10 percent deductible and costs between $200 to $400 a year for a $100,000 home, according to industry spokesmen.
The Association of California Insurance Cos. in Sacramento said that in the San Francisco area roughly 25 to 30 percent of the homes have earthquake insurance.
The organization estimated residential damages from Tuesday's earthquake at $500 million in the Bay area, with between $100 million to $150 million insured.
Insurance companies attempted Wednesday to assess the amount of quake-related damages they're likely to have to pay.
But industry observers said they don't expect any company to suffer serious financial damage from quake-related claims.
Industry analysts predicted insurers would be able to reverse three years of declining rates and win rate hikes from state regulators due to the quake damages and the estimated $4 billion in damages from Hurricane Hugo, which hammered South Carolina and other parts of the southeastern United States earlier this month.
In California, earthquake insurance is an emotional and politically-charged issue.
Insurers aren't required to offer earthquake insurance to commercial property owners, but the percentage of business property with the coverage is very high, industry spokesmen said.
EARTHQUAKES -- SAN FRANCISCO; EARTHQUAKES -- NORTHERN CALIFORNIA; OAKLAND (CA); DISASTER VICTIMS
With Congress already moving to grant up to $3 billion in relief, earthquake victims need to know that state officials are prepared to come up with the state's share of disaster and reconstruction aid as soon as possible, and as soon as is practical.
The White House already is talking of Mr. Bush visiting the California earthquake site this weekend.
State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Co., the largest home and auto insurer in California, believes the losses from the earthquake could be somewhat less than the $475 million in damages it expects to pay out for claims resulting from Hurricane Hugo.
State Farm, based in Bloomington, Ind., is also the largest writer of personal-property earthquake insurance in California.
State Farm said about 25% of its policyholders in California have also purchased earthquake insurance.
Officials from the American Insurance Association's property-claim service division, which coordinates the efforts of the claims adjusters in an area after a natural disaster, will be flying to San Francisco today.
British, West German, Scandinavian and other overseas insurers are bracing for big claims from the San Francisco earthquake disaster.
Orin Kramer, an insurance consultant in New York, estimates that the 1906 San Francisco destruction, on an inflation-adjusted basis, included insured losses of $5.8 billion.