The communist world gets its first McDonald's next week, and some people here are wondering whether its American hamburgers will be as popular as the local fast-food treat, Pljeskavica.
The long-awaited opening of the restaurant on one of Belgrade's main downtown squares will take place March 24, the Yugoslav news agency Tanjug reported, and it will offer Big Macs, fries and the other specialities familiar to McDonald's customers in the West.
It is sold at fast-food restaurants across the country and costs about a dollar.
Negotiations have been going on for years for expanding the fast-food chain to the Soviet Union, but no agreement has been announced .
Communism suffered its first Big Mac attack Thursday as McDonald's opened a restaurant in Yugoslavia, and police were called in to keep customers who lined up for hours from getting too unruly under the golden arches.
The Belgrade media have suggested that the success of McDonald's in Yugoslavia depends on its acceptance by citizens long accustomed to a hamburger-like fast-food dish called the Pljeskavica: ground pork and onions on a bun.
``In fact, this is a clash between the Big Mac and Pljeskavica,'' said Vesna Milosevic, an official of Genex, a Yugoslav state-run enterprise that has contracted a joint venture agreement with McDonald's.
Sadik Seljami, a waiter in a small Pljeskavica outlet just a few hundred yards from the McDonald's, suggested that the American restaurant wants to drive Yugoslav fast-food outlets out of business.
Glen Cook, an executive of the McDonald's Corp., said during the opening ceremonies, ``We are very excited about the opening of this restaurant, not only because it is the first one in a communist country, but also because it is one of the nicest in Europe''.
The world's largest version of the landmark American fast-food chain rang up 30,000 meals on 27 cash registers, breaking the opening-day record for McDonald's worldwide, officials said.
McDonald's of Canada Chairman George Cohon, the man behind the deal, said many people were buying multiple orders and the restaurant served 15,000 to 20,000 people in just the first five hours of operation.
McDonald's hamburgers, fries and golden arches came to China on Monday when the fast-food chain opened its first restaurant in a nation famed for its distinctive cuisine.
Hundreds of Chinese waited for hours outside the restaurant in Shenzhen, an economic boom town near Hong Kong, for their first taste of a McDonald's hamburger, fries or shake.
Another U.S. fast food outlet, Kentucky Fried Chicken, opened a restaurant in Beijing in 1987, and it now has four outlets there.
McDonald's Hong Kong is a 50-50 joint venture with McDonald's in the United States.
Daniel Ng, chairman of McDonald's Restaurant Shenzhen Ltd., said it took two years to prepare for the restaurant's opening and his ambition now is to serve 10 million burgers a year.
Opening the second McDonald's restaurant in Moscow, along with a 12-storey office block, Mr George Cohon, head of McDonald's Canada, could well be described as the Russian authorities' idea of a model investor.
Photo, COLOR, Crowd gathers for opening of first McDonald's in Soviet Union, where some waited an hour for fast food.