WHILE Hurricane Andrew was wreaking havoc across large parts of southern Florida and Louisiana this week, a grade two dollar crisis (on a one-to-four scale, four being most severe) was blowing itself out at the end of a tumultuous few days for US and world financial markets.
On Wall Street, most of the damage from the currency storm was inflicted a week ago Friday and on the following Monday, when bond yields jumped sharply and the Dow Jones industrial average plunged by more than 75 points.
The stocks of those insurance companies with the greatest exposure in southern Florida, the area hit worst by the hurricane, all took a tumble.
The Financial Times
SQUADS of workers fanned out across storm-battered Louisiana yesterday to begin a massive rebuilding effort after Hurricane Andrew had flattened whole districts, killing two people and injuring dozens more, agencies report from Florida and New Orleans.
London Page 4
GENERAL ACCIDENT, the leading British insurer, said yesterday that insurance claims arising from Hurricane Andrew could 'cost it as much as Dollars 40m'.
Not all damaged property in the area is insured and there have been estimates that the storm caused more than Dollars 20bn of damage.
HURRICANE Andrew, claimed to be the costliest natural disaster in US history, yesterday smashed its way through the state of Louisiana, inflicting severe damage on rural communities but narrowly missing the low-lying city of New Orleans.
Although the damage from the hurricane's landfall in Florida on Monday was much greater than initially esti mated, insurers' losses there are likely to total less than Dollars 1bn, well below earlier expectations, a senior member of Lloyd's insurance market said yesterday.
More than Dollars 15bn of damage may have been caused in all, but was mostly to uninsured property, he said.
DAMAGE CAUSED by Hurricane Andrew could rise to Dollars 20bn, it was estimated yesterday, as one of the costliest US storms this century threatened a further devastating landfall near the city of New Orleans.
The hurricane tore through southern Florida early on Monday morning, causing billions of dollars of property damage and at least 12 deaths, and yesterday was moving north-west across the Gulf of Mexico with winds of about 140 miles an hour.
Ms Kate Hale, director of emergency services in Florida's Dade County, which bore the brunt of the storm, estimated that Andrew had already caused Dollars 15bn to Dollars 20bn (Pounds 7.5bn-Pounds 10bn) of damage.
A spokesman for State Farm Insurance said he believed the company had roughly 20 per cent of the Florida market.
The last serious US hurricane, Hugo, which struck South Carolina in 1989, cost the industry Dollars 4.2bn from insured losses, though estimates of the total damage caused ranged between Dollars 6bn and Dollars 10bn .
US CITIES along the Gulf of Mexico from Alabama to eastern Texas were on storm watch last night as Hurricane Andrew headed west after sweeping across southern Florida, causing at least eight deaths and severe property damage.
That compares with the Dollars 4bn-Dollars 6n (Pounds 2.1bn-Pounds 3.1bn) of insurance industry losses caused by the last big US hurricane, Hugo, which hit South Carolina in 1989.