Checkpoint Charlie, the famed Allied border crossing by the Berlin Wall, was to be hauled away Friday.
Secretary of State James A. Baker III, Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze and their colleagues from France, Britain and the two Germanys were to preside over a ceremony marking the checkpoint's removal Friday.
The envoys from the German states and the four World War II Allies that divided them were in East Berlin to discuss the international aspects of German unification.
Since East Germany overthrew its Communist government last fall and the German borders were opened, Checkpoint Charlie has become as superfluous as the crumbling Berlin Wall.
The border crossing was the scene of stirring escapes and heartbreaking captures as East Germans tried flee to the West, breaking through East German control stations just 20 yards away from the Allied checkpoint.
The United States, France and Great Britain have an estimated 12,000 troops in West Berlin.
Berlin has been split into Soviet, U.S., British and France sectors and West Berlin remains technically separate from West Germany.
Large sections of the Berlin Wall are being dismantled daily, and U.S. officials decided to time the removal of Checkpoint Charlie with the foreign ministers' meeting.
Checkpoint Charlie stood just 20 yards from an East German checkpoint and was the only place between the Berlins that could be crossed on foot by non-Germans.
``I saw eight people shot to death on that street,'' she said.
``I saw an East German officer try to go under a guard rail.
East German construction worker Andreas Bratke was working near the wall in January 1986 when he suddenly bolted through the East German checkpoint, down Friedrich Street and through Checkpoint Charlie.
``I ran as fast as I could,'' he said from his home in West Berlin.
The Soviet Union said today that a united Germany can join NATO after a five-year transition period during which all Soviet and U.S. troops would leave the country.
The proposal was outlined by Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze during international talks in East Berlin on the strategic future of a united Germany.
Checkpoint Charlie, the famed Allied border crossing on the west side of the Berlin Wall, was lifted into the sky by a giant crane Friday, placed gently onto a flatbed truck and consigned to history.
Checkpoint Charlie, the Berlin Wall border post that symbolized the Cold War, was hoisted into history today .
Checkpoint Charlie went up in 1961 in the middle of the Friedrichstrasse boulevard after Communist East Germany erected the Berlin Wall to choke off a flood of refugees to the enclave of West Berlin .