Former East German leader Erich Honecker may be moved to a monastery to protect him from a possible lynching by enraged citizens, a newspaper said Wednesday.
Since Honecker was ousted Oct. 18, the former Communist Party leader and other party officials have come under investigation for charges of corruption and living in luxury at the cost of the state.
In December, seven former Politburo members were arrested, and Honecker was placed under house arrest in the government housing area of Wandlitz outside East Berlin.
``This is the only possibility to protect Erich Honecker from the rage of the East German people,'' Bild quoted the source as saying.
As protests gathered strength last fall, East Germany's longtime orthodox leader Erich Honecker ``lost touch with reality,'' according to the man who succeeded him as Communist leader only to be ousted later.
Schabowski said Honecker had personally ordered police attacks against demonstrators in early October, working closely with his then-secret police chief, Erich Mielke.
``Then-general secretary Erich Honecker and the internal security chief Erich Mielke immediately after each session of the Politburo consulted with each other on the security situation of the German Democratic Republic,'' Krenz said.
Ousted East German leader Erich Honecker, who is expected to be indicted for high treason, was arrested Monday morning upon release from a hospital and taken to prison, the official news agency ADN said.
The news agency said the 77-year-old Honecker was arrested after being released from East Berlin's Charite hospital, where he had undergone surgery for a malignant kidney tumor.
Earlier this month, East German prosecutors said Honecker and former state security chief Erich Mielke would be charged with treason and corruption charges for misuse of their positions and state funds.
Honecker, the aging hard-line Stalinist leader who ruled East Germany for 18 years until his ouster on Oct. 18, had previously been declared too ill to withstand imprisonment.
On Sunday, West Germany's mass-circulation Bild newspaper said Honecker would be arrested, but that he would be held at a prison hospital because of his condition.
Ousted East German leader Erich Honecker was arrested and taken to prison today, and a prosecutor said he will tried for high treason in March.
Honecker has been staying at a Soviet military hospital outside East Berlin.
Ousted East German leader Erich Honecker will not stand trial in East Germany as long as the formerly Communist country exists, a West German newspaper reported.
Bild said that Erich Mielke, the ex-head of East Germany's former secret police, was also unlikely to go to court in East Germany.
East Germany's ousted secret police chief threatened to break former Communist leader Erich Honecker's neck when the two faced each other in jail, a West German newspaper reported Wednesday.
Bild said Mielke and other members of Honecker's ruling circle will be moved to a West Berlin prison after German unification on Oct. 3.