With no seats and no food for the guests of honor, everyone agreed that lunch at Sardi's had gone to the dogs.
Two dogs, to be specific, the city's top police dog and the nation's top show dog.
The Dog Fanciers Club organized the event Wednesday to honor Champion Great Elms Prince Charming II, a fluffy little Pomeranian, and Nero, a big, amiable bruiser of a German shepherd.
``He's a very friendly dog,'' said Nero's master, Officer Joseph Faraguna.
"And breeds such as poodles have to be highly trimmed."; McFadden said he handles an average of 20 to 25 dogs at each show and works around 120 shows a year all over the U.S.
The dogs are frequent winners in best of breed and best of show categories.
Over the last seven years, McFadden and his wife have shown dogs representing approximately 75 percent of the 135 breeds of dog.
Kerrageen's Hotspur was scheduled to join McFadden in New York City last week for the Westminster Kennel Club Dog Show at Madison Square Garden.
Copyright 1991, San Jose Mercury News
On Valentine's Day, for example, he said, "I'll take them out and play with them longer."; "But I don't want to be known as a dog zombie," said Wegman, who did go to the Westminster Kennel Club Dog Show without the dogs.
I never got tired of him."; A dog's life; Had he been a different breed he would have been a "character actor," Wegman said, "like Lassie."; When Man Ray, who had become world famous, died of cancer in 1981, at the age of 11 years and 8 months, the artist mourned.
"I dreamed that he came back to life," said Wegman, who spent three years living without a dog.
In 1985, he got Fay Ray, who is now a familiar face not only among artists but among children who watch "Sesame Street."; As a breed, Weimaraners combine "a lap-dog sensibility with a hunting capability," the artist said.
he said.
There is nowhere that Wegman goes that the dogs do not.
One of the dog's three owners thinks the kennel-club world has seen enough of Cory, who is four years old.
In a memo filed in court, Mr. Remondi claims that Mr. Attalla retired the dog "simply and solely to better" the chances that Mr. Attalla's agent would win with a rival Rover.
The Remondis also say Mr. Attalla has bought a Rottweiler to show in another category and doesn't want to spend money on both Cory and the other dog.