Beverly Sills, Lauren Bacall, Betty Comden and Phyllis Newman are among performers who will sing, act and make guest appearances at a birthday bash in August for conductor Leonard Bernstein.
The Leonard Bernstein Gala Birthday Performance is a benefit concert scheduled for the composer's 70th birthday, Aug. 25, to raise money for the Tanglewood Music Center, where Bernstein got his conducting start.
Performances will include the Boston Symphony Orchestra, the Boston Pops Orchestra and the Tanglewood Festival Chorus under the direction of some of the many conductors whose careers have been guided by Bernstein.
Bacall and soprano Barbara Hendricks will perform a movement from Bernstein's Symphony No. 3, ``Kaddish''.
The concert will celebrate Bernstein's accomplishments in popular music with excerpts from ``West Side Story,'' ``On the Town'' and others.
The Tanglewood Music Center also is celebrating the 50th anniversary of its Music Shed this summer with a special concert by the resident Boston Symphony Orchestra featuring the same music, Beethoven's Ninth Symphony, that inaugurated the building in 1938.
Leonard Bernstein, whose 70th birthday in August was marked with a gala at Tanglewood, returned to Carnegie Hall with the New York Philharmonic 45 years after he made his triumphant conducting debut there with the orchestra.
Kraut's statement said it was not known whether Bernstein would be able to conduct next month at the Tanglewood festival or during the Tanglewood Music Center Orchestra Tour in Europe later this summer .
Albert K. Webster, managing director of the Philharmonic, said: ``Leonard Bernstein has BEEN the New York Philharmonic for more than 45 years.
He has conducted 1,244 New York Philharmonic concerts, more than any other conductor .
``He was the most unique musician of this century, there is no doubt about it,'' said Zubin Mehta, music director of the New York Philharmonic and the Israel Philharmonic Orchestra.
So four nights after Bernstein's death at age 72, Beethoven's ``Violin Concerto'' became Bernstein's ``Serenade for Solo Violin, String Orchestra, Harp and Percussion'' (1954); Shostakovich's ``Symphony No. 4'' became Bernstein's ``Symphony No. 1 (Jeremiah),'' written in 1942.
For Leonard Bernstein .
On the stage where Leonard Bernstein made his sensational New York Philharmonic conducting debut 47 years ago, the orchestra remembered the maestro at a concert that included selections from his ``Mass'' and ``Chichester Psalms''.
Bernstein was the New York Philharmonic's 25-year-old assistant conductor on Nov. 14, 1943, when he filled in at the last minute for an ailing Bruno Walter .
Bernstein was the first American-born conductor to lead a major symphony orchestra, often joining his New York Philharmonic in playing his own pieces, while conducting from the piano .
Bernstein was not to get his own orchestra until he took over the New York Philharmonic in 1957-58.
At Sony Classical (formerly CBS Records) in New York City, Peter Munves, director of marketing, said this week that in January the company will begin its three-year release of "The Bernstein Collection": "We will release 75 CDs of Bernstein performances, including not only symphonic music by Beethoven and others, but also oratorio performances -- works by Haydn, and the Requiems by Berlioz and Verdi -- and other music never before released on CD" .