(check) About 300 black pastors, representing congregations totaling more than 1 million churchgoers in 30 states, held a rally on the steps of the Supreme Court and then lobbied their senators to support confirmation of President Bush's Supreme Court nominee.
The ministers were recently organized into a conservative Coalition for the Restoration of the Black Family and Society, with the first item on its agenda being Thomas' confirmation.
(check) A television ad supporting Thomas, shown in four Southern states where senators face re-election campaigns next year, attracted 10,000 calls between Friday and Sunday, according to Gary Bauer, organizer of the conservative Citizens Committee to Confirm Clarence Thomas, which financed the ad's production.
(check) On the other side of the Thomas confirmation issue, the National Abortion Rights Action League reported that senators had begun to receive the first of 500,000 anti-Thomas post cards the group has provided to the constituents of targeted lawmakers whose votes against Thomas' confirmation are regarded as critical.
USA
Washington
Morning Final
SJ
910911
September
Copyright 1991, San Jose Mercury News
Dean Kelley, the National Council of Churches' counselor on religious liberty, wrote a critique of Clarence Thomas that was used as grounds for his organization's opposition to the Supreme Court nominee.
The author did not mention Virginia Thomas in his text but has said he was concerned about her involvement in the Cult Awareness Network (CAN), a Chicago-based organization that says it educates the public about "destructive" cults.
Although Thomas appeared to back away from comments made in past speeches or articles, he told the committee, "My view is that I have been consistent."; Thomas' opponents believe Republicans Strom Thurmond of South Carolina, Orrin Hatch of Utah, Charles Grassley of Iowa, Alan Simpson of Wyoming and Hank Brown of Colorado are solid Thomas backers.
Metzenbaum said Thomas' refusal to give direct answers "makes it more difficult to vote for him."; THOMAS' VIEWS; Excerpts from Clarence Thomas' testimony:; On abortion: "I have no reason or agenda to prejudge the issue . . . or a predilection to rule one way or another on the issue of abortion."; On affirmative action: "The line that I drew was a line that said that we shouldn't have preferences, or goals, or timetables or quotas."; On natural law: "At no time did I feel, nor do I feel now, that natural law is anything more than the background to our Constitution."; HEAR IT, SEE IT; Senate confirmation hearings for Supreme Court nominee Clarence Thomas are scheduled to run through Friday this week and every weekday except Wednesday next week.
, "he's the only person gathered in the room who does not have an opinion."; Kohl added, "I'm concerned about his candor, his willingness to be forthcoming."; Today, Kohl asked the nominee, "Is it fair of you to say to us, for the most part, just view me on what I'm saying here this week?"; Kohl asked the black federal judge whether he was offended by published comments calling his appointment by President Bush a "quota."; "That would trouble anyone," Thomas said, adding, "I don't think it's accurate".
, said to Thomas.
Wade (the landmark 1973 abortion-rights ruling) with another human being."; Moderate Republican Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania, who often casts a swing vote on the committee, said he was not troubled by Thomas' shift toward more moderate views at the hearings.