New treatments that stop a heart attack in its tracks may help victims to get out of the hospital more quickly than ever before, perhaps even three days after their attacks, a study published today concludes.
When given quickly after a heart attack, TPA can dissolve clots in the heart's arteries and minimize damage.
Now, doctors typically keep heart attack patients hospitalized seven to 10 days.
A drug used to treat patients complaining of chest pain also could help prevent recurring heart attacks in four out of five heart patients, according to a study published in today's edition of the New England Journal of Medicine.
``That's what this study was all about''.
But in patients who had normal or near-normal heart pump function _ 1,909 patients or 80 percent of the total group _ diltiazem decreased the chance of another heart attack by 25 percent, Moss said.
While most public attention has focused on this new ability to prevent heart attacks, researchers have also made important progress in speeding the recovery of patients who survive heart attacks.
Researchers at the University of Michigan recently determined that some heart attack victims can be released from the hospital as soon as three days after their heart attacks.
Balloon angioplasty is also widely used to treat people with clogged heart arteries who have not suffered heart attacks.
A drug that eases the heart's workload can cut the risk of new cardiac attacks and death by 20 percent in people recovering from heart attacks, according to a major study released Thursday.
While calcium blockers may not replace beta blockers after heart attacks, the researchers said these drugs still should have a role in treatment.
An intestinal operation to lower the cholesterol of heart attack patients reduced their risk for another heart attack or death from heart disease, researchers said today.
``It has a role in the management of patients with high cholesterol who have had a heart attack,'' Buchwald said.
About half of the 1.5 million Americans who suffer a heart attack each year don't have the known risk factors for heart disease, such as high cholesterol levels, cigarette smoking, obesity and high blood pressure.
Such "high renin" people are at a high risk of a heart attack.
But the seven heart attacks in this small group constituted the highest incidence of heart attacks among the patients, 13 heart attacks per 1,000 person-years of observation.
There were no heart attacks among the 240 patients with low renin profiles who had no risk factors other than high blood pressure.
In an accompanying editorial, Victor J. Dzau of Stanford University medical school said the study shows that the renin profile test is "potentially useful" in identifying high blood pressure patients who are at risk of a heart attack.