Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher has weakened her position and kicked off the race to succeed her by saying she plans to step down after winning another term, opposition leaders and political observers said.
A pro-Thatcher newspaper today said she had merely stated the obvious and that her statements were no ``cause for astonishment''.
Mrs. Thatcher told The Sunday Correspondent in an interview published Sunday that she hoped to lead her Conservative Party to a fourth successive election but said it was unlikely she would try for a fifth.
The Sunday Times of London said in a commentary: ``Mrs.
Earlier this year, Mrs. Thatcher overtook Liberal Lord Asquith's 1908-1916 tenure as prime minister to become Britain's longest continuously serving prime minister of the 20th century.
Mrs. Thatcher's popularity is the lowest of any prime minister since opinion polls began in Britain 50 years ago, and senior colleagues have publicly admonished her to change her leadership style following the surprise resignation of her treasury chief, Nigel Lawson.
Lord Callaghan, former Labor prime minister whom Mrs. Thatcher defeated in 1979, said her comments had ``considerably weakened her position''.
If Mrs. Thatcher resigns while in office, her successor elected by the party automatically becomes prime minister with approval of Queen Elizabeth II, but convention dictates that he or she seek a mandate in a general election as soon as possible.
Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher's international admirers praised her courage and achievements Thursday after she announced she would resign.
Said President Bush, ``I will miss her''.
``Margaret Thatcher will be seen with Winston Churchill as the greatest British prime minister of the last 50 years.
Two years ago as they met for the final time before Reagan left office, the president said he was leaving the White House with ``considerable satisfaction in the knowledge that Margaret Thatcher will still reside at No. 10 Downing Street''.
Former President Reagan thanked British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher for backing him up when other allies backed down, heaping praise on his political soulmate as she heads off into the sunset.
Photo, Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev checks his watch as Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher speaks.
Flamboyant former Defense Minister Michael Heseltine's challenge to Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher for leadership of the Conservative Party has caused a political sensation in Britain.
But there is only one Mrs. Thatcher.
Embattled Margaret Thatcher remains leader of Britain's Conservative Party, and so the country's prime minister -- but only barely.
"I have done pretty well out of being Mrs. Thatcher," said the former prime minister, who resigned Nov. 22 during a fight for the leadership of the Conservative Party .