More than 4,000 workers at a coal mine in the southern city of Jastrzebie went on strike today to demand legalization of Solidarity and higher wages, a spokeswoman said.
Solidarity spokeswoman Katarzyna Ketrzynska said workers on the overnight shift at the Manifest Lipcowy mine stayed outside the mine shaft all night and were joined by workers arriving for the morning shift.
She said the miners are demanding the legalization of Solidarity and reinstatement of workers fired for union activities.
Port workers in Szczecin and southwestern coal miners today declared sympathy strikes with miners demanding the legalization of Solidarity, opposition activists said.
The second strike came as Solidarity strike committee members met with management and representatives of the Industry Ministry at the July Manifesto colliery.
More than 10,000 coal miners in four states were off the job today to express sympathy for miners in Virginia and West Virginia who have waged a bitter strike since April against the Pittston Coal Group.
Some said they are asking union members to return to work, but Tommy Buchanan, international executive board member in UMW District 20 in Birmingham, Ala., said today the final decision on whether 5,000 Alabama miners will join the strike will be with union President Richard Trumka.
President Mikhail S. Gorbachev said today that thousands of striking coal miners and other workers are urging railway employees to join the work stoppage and that the unrest threatens his economic reforms.
Strikes by tens of thousands of miners in this Siberian coal region spread to four more of the Soviet Union's coal fields, Tass reported today.
Miners in the Karaganda region in Soviet Central Asia today refused to work, Tass said.
Tass said their demands were similar to those of striking miners in the Donetsk and Kuznetsk coal basins, who are seeking greater local control over their industries and better wages and living conditions.
On Wednesday, Tass said that 24,000 strikers in Kuznetsk were back at work and 150,000 remained on strike.
Coal miners in Siberia ended their strike today after exacting promises of better food, housing and working conditions, but the wave of unrest they launched continued in other key coal regions.
Some of the 150,000 miners who went on strike last week in Siberia's Kuznetsk coal basin region returned to work Thursday, and the rest went back today, strike leaders and the official Tass news agency said.
In the largest coal region, the Donetsk Coal Basin of the Ukraine, more than 300,000 miners were on strike, the deputy minister of the coal industry, Alexander P. Fisun, told Izvestia.
Tass said late Thursday that strikes had ended at six mines in the Donetsk region but that most mines in the area remained on strike.
Komsomolskaya Pravda said night-shift workers walked out at three mines in Vorkuta and at another one the miners were still working but were preventing the coal from being shipped outside the region.
The National Union of Mineworkers said an estimated 200,000 black gold and coal miners in South Africa will begin a strike Sunday night for higher wages and better working conditions, in what it said would be the largest job action ever to affect the mining industry in that nation.