A Soviet newspaper has painted a highly sympathetic portrait of Andrei D. Sakharov and Yelena Bonner, countering past attacks on the dissident couple once branded as traitors by the state-run media.
But the account in Moscow News only indirectly mentioned the nearly seven years Sakharov spent in forced internal exile for criticizing the Soviet drive into Afghanistan, indicating that topic is still too sensitive.
In its latest issue, the weekly devoted its entire back page to describing the home life of Sakharov, 66, the 1975 Nobel Peace Prize winner, and said the words most often heard in his seventh-floor Moscow apartment are ``help me''.
Past Soviet reports, published before Gorbachev became Soviet leader, accused Bonner of marrying Sakharov for his money and said the couple lived in ``oriental luxury'' amid ``scandals between spouses''.
While Sakharov was in exile in the closed city of Gorky, the author of a book that accused him of leading a luxurious and scandal-ridden existence came to ask for an interview, Moscow News said.
Sakharov has been quoted numerous times by Soviet media since his return from exile, but the article in Moscow News was the longest devoted to him so far.
Soviet media once branded Andrei D. Sakharov a traitor, but a Moscow weekly has now provided a sympathetic portrait of the human rights activist and his wife.
This week's issue of the newspaper Moscow News said that Sakharov long ago understood the need for change in the Soviet Union.
Moscow News also pointedly notes that the 1975 Nobel Peace Prize winner has praised Mikhail S.
However, Sakharov has insisted on speedier progress in improving the Soviet record on human rights, and during a Jan. 15 meeting in the Kremlin, he handed Gorbachev a list of 200 people he said were imprisoned for their views.
Andrei D. Sakharov, the father of the Soviet dissident movement, finally received a 1973 human rights award Thursday night during his first trip to New York City.
The 67-year-old Nobel Peace Prize winner is on his first trip to the West, less than two years after Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev freed him from internal exile in the city of Gorky.
Andrei D. Sakharov urged members of the Academy of Sciences on Monday to reject the leadership's list of candidates for the new Soviet legislature, which does not include the Nobel Peace Prize winner.
Gorbachev called Sakharov in Gorky in December 1986 and told him he could return to Moscow.
President Mikhail S. Gorbachev and other Soviet leaders said in an obituary that Sakharov had been the victim of ``gross injustices'' and praised him as a ``man of honesty and sincerity''.
Soviet human rights activist Andrei D. Sakharov said Sunday that his country is on the brink of economic catastrophe because reforms of the old centralized system are too slow in arriving .
Lech Walesa, a fellow Nobel Peace Prize laureate, said Sakharov's death was "a great loss for reform both in the Soviet Union and everywhere else" .
The 68-year-old 1975 Nobel Peace Prize recipient and human rights activist died on Thursday. Tass