The bodies of 47 sailors killed in the gun explosion on the Iowa arrived in the United States on Thursday as the Navy tried to figure out what caused the battleship's turret to blow up.
None of the guns in the no. 2 turret had been fired before the explosion instantly killed the seamen, Navy officials said.
The Navy organized a board of inquiry and placed a moratorium on firing 16-inch guns, found only on the Iowa and its three sister battleships, the New Jersey, the Wisconsin and the Missouri.
A spokesman for the Atlantic Fleet and the ship's former captain both said the explosion in the No. 2 turret could have been triggered by red-hot debris from earlier firings in the three-gun turret.
Baker said no guns in the No. 2 turret had been fired and the order had just been given to the No. 2 turret crew to load and prepare the center gun when the explosion occurred.
None of the four battleships of the Iowa class, which saw service in World War II and the Korean and Vietnam wars, has ever sustained such an explosion, Pentagon officials said.
Officials refused to speculate publicly on what caused the worst disaster to strike a Navy ship in more than a decade, a blast that ripped through the Iowa's No. 2 gun turret during naval exercises Wednesday in the Atlantic north of Puerto Rico.
But the Navy defended the 16-inch gun, the mightiest in use on any ocean, after an explosion killed 47 sailors Wednesday aboard the battleship Iowa while a turret crew loaded gunpowder for target practice.
The Navy said Thursday that none of the guns in the Iowa turret had been fired before the explosion took place.
Maj. Tom Johnston, a spokesman for the Atlantic Fleet in Norfolk, said he had no information on the cause of death of the 47 crewmen.Navy officials have refused to speculate on the cause of the explosion.
Navy officials have said that the explosion in the No. 2 gun turret damaged only the turret.
Lt. Cmdr. James Cudler, a Pentagon spokesman, said the explosion occurred as an Iowa officer was making a videotape to record the firing of the ship's big guns.
The explosion Wednesday flashed through the Iowa's No. 2 gun turret, which extends six decks down into the ship.
There were 11 survivors inside the turret, all on the lowest deck loading powder from the ship's magazines, the Navy said.
Two of the surviving crewmen of No. 2 turret stood on top of the fire-blackened turret as the ship pulled into the pier, with full crews on the ship's two other turrets, the Navy said.
The Pentagon said it happened before the middle 16-inch gun of the three-gun turret had been fired.
Navy gunnery officers believe the explosion occurred when the bags were being transferred from a powder hoist to the gun, the newspaper said.
NAVY (U.S).