Hurricane Hugo struck South Carolina with renewed fury Thursday after thousands of coastal residents in southeastern states grabbed what they could carry and fled inland on jammed highways.
``This is a disaster staring us right in the eye,'' Mayor Joseph P. Riley Jr. said from his City Hall command post in Charleston, where the hurricane downed power lines, snapped trees and caused utility transformers to explode.
Hurricane-force winds first hit the coast by 9:15 p.m. EDT, and about three hours later the eye of the storm passed over the Isle of Palms just east of Charleston, said Bob Sheets, director of the National Hurricane Center in Coral Gables, Fla.
The eye was about 10 miles across and top winds were still at 135 mph. Hugo was expected to turn gradually to the north, causing severe flooding as it moved up the East Coast.
The storm posed a 19 percent chance of hitting New York City and a 16 percent chance of hitting Boston before Sunday night, the hurricane center said.
This of course is at the same time that we're sheltering 25,000 people on Puerto Rico and the other Caribbean islands.
Near its center, Hugo's muscle reached winds of 135 mph, up from 125 mph earlier in the day and 105 mph the day before.
North and South Carolina can expect tornadoes linked to Hugo for the next two days, according to the hurricane center.
``This is a dangerous, killer hurricane, the likes of which few people who have lived all their lives in Charleston have experienced,'' warned Mayor Joseph P. Riley Jr. Hugo was the first major hurricane to strike Charleston since Hurricane Gracie came ashore 70 miles to the south in 1959.
Supercomputers, satellites and the expertise of several hurricane forecasters predicted the destructive path Hurricane Hugo would follow, giving people plenty of time to flee the South Carolina coast.
Forecasters at the National Hurricane Center used computer models to track Hugo's path into Charleston, S.C.
Sept. 13 _ Hugo develops into a hurricane as winds reach 74 mph.
Sept. 17 _ On Antigua, two people are killed and there is widespread wind and rain damage.
Hugo blasted the eastern Caribbean and the Carolinas with 135 mph winds this past week, killing at least 41 people.
The storm, which caused billions in damage, claimed 17 lives in South Carolina, and only two were in the Charleston area, which bore the brunt of Hugo's 135 mph winds.
The two dominant home and automobile insurers in the Carolinas said Tuesday that they expect to be hit with about $600 million in claims from Hurricane Hugo.
There were a phenomenal number of claims from that storm, but there was not the severity of damage" as in Hugo, Parsons said.
HURRICANES; STORMS -- SOUTH CAROLINA; HOMEOWNERS INSURANCE; AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE; NATIONWIDE LIFE INSURANCE CO; CONTINENTAL CORP; DISASTERS; PROPERTY DAMAGE; INSURANCE CLAIMS; STORMS -- NORTH CAROLINA; STATE FARM FIRE & CASUALTY CO; STORMS -- PUERTO RICO; STORMS -- VIRGIN ISLANDS OF THE UNITED STATES