Debi Thomas' dream of Olympic gold turned into disappointment Saturday as East Germany's Katarina Witt won her second straight Olympic championship and Canadian Elizabeth Manley took home the silver before a crowd of cheering countrymen.
Two of the six were gold medals, won by Brian Boitano in figure skating and Bonnie Blair in speed skating.
Van Gennip took more than six seconds off her own world record in the 5,000 meters to win her third gold medal.
The Soviets finished first in both number of gold medals, with 11, and total medals, with 29, a record for the Winter Olympics.
East Germany's athletes won nine golds, 25 overall; while Switzerland's team came in third in both gold medals, five, and overall medals, 15.
Florence Griffith Joyner twice smashed a world record Thursday as she blazed to a gold medal in the 200-meter sprint.
Griffith Joyner, who set an Olympic record Sunday in winning the 100 meters, had a big lead Thursday as she turned the curve for the final 100 meters.
Among the highlights: _Greg Louganis won the Olympic Spirit Award as top American athlete Sunday for winning gold medals in platform and 3-meter springboard diving.
Griffith Joyner won golds in the 100, the 200 and the 400-meter relay, and silver in the 1,600-meter relay.
She set a world record in the 200 and an Olympic record in the 100.
Joyner-Kersee won two golds, taking the heptathlon with a world record 7,291 points and the long jump with an Olympic mark of 24 feet, 3 inches.
The Soviet Union won the first U.S.-Soviet Olympic medal contest since 1976, getting 55 gold medals to 37 for East Germany and 36 for the United States.
She won gold and bronze medals at the Seoul Olympics .
Dave Johnson of the United States clinched the decathlon gold medal in the final event at the World University Games Sunday .
Olympic steeplechase champion Julius Kariuki of Kenya, running the distance for the first time this year, won the men's 10,000-meter race, while the Romanian team earned six gold medals .
But even these two, along with Jackie Joyner-Kersee, who won the women's heptathalon and the long jump, may find it more difficult than in previous years to turn gold medals into gold in the bank.
Earlier this year, sports marketers estimated that a gold medal won during the Summer Games could earn a personable athlete more than $1 million in endorsements.
Since winning two gold medals during the 1984 Summer Olympics, the diver has had little luck with major endorsements.