Thunderstorms wreaked havoc across the middle Mississippi Valley and the Southeast on Wednesday with lethal tornadoes, wind up to 100 mph and hail up to the size of baseballs.
One twister smashed into a residential district, a shopping area and a school, killing at least two people and causing dozens of injuries, police said.
Southern Illinois was also hard hit by the storms, with one woman killed by a falling tree, about 20 people injured and power lines downed.
An afternoon thunderstorm in east-central Alabama formed a tornado which damaged at least one home, and the Clay County Sheriff's office said an unknown number of people were injured in one house.
Severe thunderstorms also developed over Alabama and South Carolina during the afternoon, and the weather service reported a tornado north of Greenwood, S.C.
A tornado slammed into a shopping district, a residential area and a school Wednesday, killing at least 15 people, injuring more than 300 and trapping people in cars and homes, authorities said.
Mayor Steve Hettinger said 305 people were injured and about 500 displaced by the tornado that struck while streets of this northeastern Alabama city filled with rush-hour traffic.
Witnesses said the downtown Jones Valley Elementary School, the Waterford Square and adjacent Queensbury apartment complexes were reduced to rubble by the tornado.
He said two people were killed when the twister hit house trailers in rural areas east of Huntsville.
Heavy overhead power lines ``started snapping just like a circus performer would snap his whip,'' Carroll said.
The National Weather Service earlier said a tornado hit the east Alabama hamlet of Mellow Valley, severely damaging at least one home and causing some injuries.
Another tornado touched down about 1:30 p.m. as severe weather swept across much of Alabama and the National Weather Service placed most of the state under a tornado watch.
In Georgia, five people were injured, four critically, and at least 200 people evacuated after a tornado struck two mobile home parks and an interstate highway near Palmetto, about 25 miles southeast of Atlanta, authorities said.
No injuries were reported.
The National Weather Service said the storm probably was a tornado .
State Police and survivors said they believed the school was hit by a tornado, but the National Weather Service said it could not confirm that until investigators went to the scene.
Danny Cooper, director of the Alabama Emergency Management Agency, said three people were seriously injured in an earlier tornado that hit a home in Clay County in eastern Alabama.
Gov. Guy Hunt, at the state's disaster center in Montgomery, said rescue teams with cranes and floodlights would search the rubble through the night for injured or dead.