President Corazon Aquino has agreed to allow Ferdinand Marcos to return to the Philippines so that the government can try him on charges of stealing billions of dollars, newspapers said Saturday.
The Manila Bulletin and The Manila Chronicle quoted Mrs. Aquino's press secretary, Teodoro Benigno, as saying that Mrs. Aquino made the assurance to two Swiss lawyers before she visited Switzerland earlier this month.
The reports did not say when criminal charges against Marcos, Aquino's ousted predecessor, will be filed or when Mrs. Aquino will allow him to return.
Mrs. Aquino has refused to allow Marcos into the Philippines, citing security reasons.
Mrs. Aquino's government has said it will file criminal charges against Marcos, whom it has accused of stealing up to $10 billion in government funds.
But the government has not done so because of Mrs. Aquino's refusal to let Marcos enter the country.
Marcos has been living in Hawaii since he was toppled by the civilian-military revolt that swept Mrs. Aquino to power in February 1986.
Mrs. Aquino has said she would allow Marcos to return now only if he and his family swore allegiance to her government and returned the money he allegedly stole during his 20-year rule.
President Corazon Aquino said today she will not allow Ferdinand Marcos to come home to die and her government will not permit the ousted president to be buried on Philippine soil.
Marcos' wife Imelda appealed today to Mrs. Aquino to ``open her heart'' and allow the former president to return.
In Honolulu, Marcos aide Arturo Aruiza said Imelda had left the hospital to make a final appeal to Mrs. Aquino to allow her husband to die in his homeland.
Mrs. Aquino's daughter, Maria Elena Cruz, said the president had received no calls from Mrs.
Marcos. Mrs.
Marcos has his rights, I still have to consider also the rights and interests of millions of Filipinos,'' Mrs. Aquino said.
Marcos that I do pray that he will still recover from this latest critical illness,'' Mrs. Aquino said.
Marcos said.
Mrs. Aquino had said earlier: ``I regret to inform Mrs.
When told of Mrs. Aquino's statement, Mrs.