Thunderstorms swept through central and eastern Ohio, causing flooding that killed at least ten people, left dozens missing and forced hundreds of others from their homes, officials said today.
Two creeks just outside this Ohio River village of 4,300 people overflowed when about 4 inches of rain fell Thursday night in about an hour.
``It created a wall of water,'' said Jim Williams of the Ohio Emergency Management Agency.
Williams said 40 to 60 people remained unaccounted for at midday.
Belmont County's sheriff's Sgt. Bart Giesey said 10 people were confirmed dead.
The raging waters knocked homes off their foundations and washed away a bar filled with people in Shadyside, an Appalachian Mountain foothill town.
Belmont County Sheriff's Department spokeswoman Judy Phillips said a Shadyside bar full of people was washed away when water caved in the back wall.
Shadyside Fire Chief Mark Badia said rescuers pulled people from three cars in Wegee Creek, which flows through Shadyside and into the Ohio River.
There also was flooding in Jefferson County, north of Belmont, and Licking County in central Ohio.
Two inches of rain caused flooding in Franklin County in central Ohio and 3.75 inches of rain was dumped on Holmes County in north-central Ohio, the National Weather Service said.
Vogt said two bodies were found in the Ohio River and one was found in a field next to the river after water receded.
Coast Guard were searching the Ohio River for survivors and bodies, and Badia said National Guardsmen were to continue searching the creeks throughout the night.
The death toll from flash floods that swept through a rural area of eastern Ohio rose to 20 Sunday as searchers dug along two creeks and dived into the Ohio River.
You can't swim out there that long in the Ohio River,'' said Chuck Vogt, Belmont County coroner's investigator.
Officials said Friday that 60 people were missing; some of those later were found dead, while others notified authorities that they were safe and officials learned that still more had moved out of the area.
Shadyside -- about 10 miles south of Wheeling, W.Va. -- is in Belmont County, a mostly hilly, rural area in eastern Ohio .
"I don't know how to describe it . . . you've got to see it to believe it," Badia said .
The body of a man was found Sunday afternoon in the Ohio River, a half-mile south of the mouth of Wegee Creek and about seven miles south of Shadyside, Vogt said .