The earthquake that devastated Iran early Thursday took tens of thousands of lives because people were asleep in fragile homes built on flood plains, an earthquake expert said.
``Most casualties from earthquakes are caused by something falling on top of you,'' said Russ Needham, a geophysist with the U.S.
Geological Survey that monitors ground motion around the world.
The quake hit at 12:30 a.m. in Iran, when most of the people were in their homes, Needham said Thursday in a telephone interview from Golden, Colo.
At least 25,000 people died and thousands were injured in the quake, which demolished scores of villages and buried thousands of people in the rubble of their homes, Iranian officials said.
Like Thursday's earthquake in Iran, the Dec. 7, 1988, earthquake in Armenia killed about 25,000 people.
The State Department said Friday that Iran was willing to accept earthquake relief from the American Red Cross and other U.S. humanitarian organizations .
An anti-American newspaper in Iran said Sunday the United States is partly to blame for the death of tens of thousands of people in last week's earthquake.
Embassy in Tehran, has said it would welcome relief from the American Red Cross and other U.S. humanitarian groups.
Mexico, which lost at least 10,000 people in a 1985 earthquake, is sending food, medical supplies and blankets, officials said Sunday.
AmeriCares, a private agency based in New Canaan, Conn., brought the first shipment of supplies from the United States into Iran on Sunday.
About 25,000 people died in eastern Iran in a 1978 earthquake.
While IRNA reported 10,000 dead late Thursday, the Iranian ambassador to the United Nations said 25,000 people had died .
Iran said today that it would welcome relief offered by its bitter enemy, the United States, to help victims of the earthquake that has killed as many as 35,000 people, the State Department said in Washington .
State Department officials said the government gave $300,000 worth of supplies to the American Red Cross for shipment to Iran -- including 1,000 hard hats, 1,000 pairs of leather gloves, 10,000 face masks, 2,940 wool blankets and about 500 tents .
Pat Davis, a spokesman for the American Red Cross in Washington, said Friday that although the Red Crescent is highly organized and well equipped, the large number of dead and suffering people has forced the Iranian agency to solicit international assistance .
AMERICAN RED CROSS; RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS; UNITED STATES -- FOREIGN RELATIONS -- IRAN; CONTRIBUTIONS; EARTHQUAKES -- IRAN; DISASTERS -- IRAN; IRAN -- RELIEF; DISASTER RELIEF
The group -- the Orange County Committee for Iran Earthquake Relief -- has set up a special account at Capital Bank in Santa Ana.