Overcrowding and safety violations caused an aging ferry to capsize in the Ganges River, killing as many as 400 people, a government report said.
The ferry accident was said to be India's worst ever.
A senior government official, discussing the confidential report on condition of anonymity, said authorities believed at least 300 people on the lower deck died when the ferry overturned Saturday morning.
About 200 people were on the upper deck, he said.
Survivors said they protested when 150 bags of wheat were loaded onto the ferry.
Authorities said the water was still rising and the submerged boat was sinking in the river bed.
More than 100 people were feared drowned after an overcrowded ferry sank at a river junction in southern Bangladesh, police said today.
The ferry that sank was carrying more than double its authorized capacity of 100 passengers, police said.
Police said six bodies were found in the hull of the ferry, the M.L. Sonali, and nine others were found more than a mile downstream.
A passenger ferry sank off the Caribbean coast while being towed to port, and 59 people drowned and six are missing, authorities and news reports said today.
Officials said 46 people survived the sinking of the ferry Justo Rufino Barrios II in Amatique Bay on Guatemala's east coast Sunday.
He said by telephone that the ferry ran out of fuel midway on a 16-mile run across the bay from Livingston to Puerto Barrios and sank after a naval patrol boat tried to tow it to port.
Giron Arreola also said that passengers ran to one side of the ferry while it was under tow just before the ferry sank.
Three of the sailors said the boat had been taking on water over the stern in heavy seas, then capsized when it was hit by a big wave.
Copyright 1991, San Jose Mercury News
"We are looking for both survivors and bodies," said Brig.
"They went off in a boat," passenger Abdel-A'ati Hassan, 31, said from his hospital bed in Safaga.
But you never can tell."; Survivors said that after the ferry hit the reef, crew members herded them to one side of the listing boat, then pushed passengers aside to get to lifeboats.