Emperor Hirohito's blood pressure and pulse dropped sharply Thursday, but the vital signs later returned to normal as the ailing monarch's internal bleeding continued.
Hirohito, 87, discharged more blood and was given emergency transfusions, but was resting peacefully by nightfall, an imperial palace spokesman said.
Hirohito's blood pressure fell from 132 over 60 in the afternoon to 112 over 50 by evening, and his pulse from 104 per minute in the morning to 84 in the evening, said Kenji Maeda, chief of the Imperial Household Agency's General Affairs Division.
Hirohito has received nearly 22 pints of blood since his illness worsened Sept. 19, and the transfusions had put a strain on Hirohito's heart and kidneys, Maeda said without elaborating.
TOKYO (AP _ Emperor Hirohito will be remembered for one overwhelming decision during his 62-year reign: Japan must bow to defeat for the first time in its history and end the Pacific conflict in World War II.
World leaders from President Reagan to Malaysia's king mourned today's death of Emperor Hirohito, who surrendered a broken nation to the Allies in World War II but presided over its rise to economic pre-eminence.
Reaction to Hirohito's death at age 87, however, was decidedly cool in several Asian countries, including South Korea, which endured years of harsh colonial rule by Japan.
There was no official comment from the nationalist Chinese government because of the lack of diplomatic relations between Taiwan and Japan, but the mass circulation Chinese daily United Evening News said: ``Asian people who suffered from the slavery and invasion of Japan's militarists during World War II may bury their animosity with Hirohito's death.
``It was an irony that while Hirohito apologized to the United States and Europe for the war, he did not direct a single word to China to show his sorrow.Now, Hirohito has died.
In the United States, President Reagan said in a statement, ``His Majesty's 62-year reign spanned one of the most tumultuous, and yet at the same time constructive eras in the history of mankind _ an age of unprecedented economic collapse, a most vicious war, astonishing scientific acheivement, and dramatic political and social changes throughout the world.
His Majesty played a truly heroic role in bringing hostilities between our two peoples to an end,'' Reagan said, referring to Hirohito's decision to end World War II.
In New Zealand, Prime Minister David Lange said Hirohito's death marks the end of an era.
President Corazon Aquino of the Philippines sent condolences to the imperial family and her foreign secretary, Raul Manglapus, a Japanese prisoner of war during World War II, praised Hirohito as ``a stabilizing factor'' in the creation of a democratic Japan.
World leaders sent Japan messages of condolences and some declared states of mourning after Emperor Hirohito's death Saturday, but painful memories of World War II still generated criticism of the Japanese monarch.
But Indonesian President Suharto cabled his condolences to Crown Prince Akihito, Hirohito's eldest son who immediately ascended the Chrysanthemum Throne, and said he will personally pay the last homage to Hirohito, presidential spokesman Moerdiono said.
To the rest of the world, he was known as Emperor Hirohito, but in Japan his given name was seldom used.
English-language newspapers published in Japan quickly began using the name Showa for Hirohito after his death, but it did not become truly official until Jan. 31, when Emperor Akihito conducted a ceremony in which Showa became the late emperor's posthumous name.
The death of Emperor Hirohito finished the list of political and military leaders of the World War II era, one of the darkest and bloodiest eras of history on either the European or Asian continents .