Within hours of the schoolyard shootings that left five children and the gunman dead and 30 wounded Tuesday, dozens of translators rushed to assist the many Southeast Asian parents who arrived at the hospital desperate for word of their youngsters.
They are not sure what happened, not sure what's going on around them,'' said Laura Dixon, of the Charterhouse Center refugee program, in Stockton, describing the scene translators found when they arrived at San Joaquin County General Hospital.
Many of the parents speak no English and were unable to ask whether their children were among those killed or wounded when a heavily armed gunman in combat fatigues invaded Cleveland Elementary School and opened fire before taking his own life.
School officials said 60 percent of the children were Southeast Asian refugees _ either from Cambodia, Laos or Thailand.
All five of the children killed were of this background, authorities said.
A man fired several dozen shots from an automatic rifle in an elementary school Tuesday, killing six children, wounding at least 35 other people and then shooting himself in the head, authorities said.
The 26-year-old drifter with a long criminal record who launched a mute, murderous assault on a California elementary school Tuesday was described by his aunt as a loner and childhood alcoholic, police said.
Patrick E. Purdy purchased an AK-47 rifle in this Portland suburb several months ago, then returned to his hometown of Stockton, Calif., where he used the gun to kill five children and wound 29 others, along with a teacher, at Cleveland Elementary School before taking his own life, authorities said.
``I never thought a tragedy of this magnitude could happen in Stockton,'' said Cuevas, a 29-year-old marine clerk at the Port of Stockton who lives down the street from the elementary school.
About 60 percent of Cleveland Elementary's students are of Southeast Asian descent, said John Klose, spokesman for the Stockton School District.
On Tuesday, a 26-year-old drifter with a long crimnal record opened fire with an assault rifle at Cleveland Elementary School in Stockton, Calif., killing five children and wounding 30 other people before taking his own life.
Children at the Greenwood school will be asked to send cards to the California school, while the principal, Eleanor Rice, and Ms. Finkbeiner said they will contact officials at the Stockton school to offer encouragement.
EDUCATION: Records indicate a Patrick Edward Purdy attended Cleveland Elementary School, scene of Tuesday's shooting, through third grade, from 1969 to 1973.
Patrick Purdy, 24, opened fire outside the Cleveland Elementary School with an AK-47 semiautomatic assault rifle, firing more than 100 rounds, killing five children and wounding 29 others and one teacher.
Patrick Edward Purdy, who turned a powerful assault rifle on a crowded school playground Tuesday, killing five children and wounding 29 more, had been a student at the school from kindergarten through third grade, officials said today .
"I don't understand why, and I probably won't ever know why," said Purdy's grandmother, 63-year-old Julia Chumbley, who lives nearby in Lodi.
City officials readied the city's Civic Auditorium for a Monday memorial ceremony for the families and friends of a Vietnamese student and four Cambodian pupils gunned down in the playground at Cleveland Elementary School Tuesday by armed drifter Patrick Edward Purdy, who killed himself with a single pistol shot to the head .
Ly said he was watching a news report about the massacre Tuesday morning in which five children and the gunman were killed when he spotted the picture of a 9-year-old victim he recognized as his lost son.