Two weeks after a failed launch attempt, an improved Discovery is ready to embark on one of the most momentous shuttle missions, hoisting the Hubble Space Telescope high enough to behold the threshold of time.
NASA said it may release its first telescope image from Hubble _ of an open star cluster in the constellation Carina _ as early as that same day.
Five astronauts boarded Discovery today for a second try at sending the Hubble Space Telescope into orbit to scan the outermost reaches of the universe for clues to the beginning of time.
The day after launch, mission specialist Steven A. Hawley will use the shuttle's mechanical arm to lift the 24,250-pound telescope into space.
``It's a beautiful day to have Hubble Space Telescope in orbit instead of here on Earth like it's been for so many years,'' said NASA administrator Richard Truly.
For scientists, and then the rest of us, all that becomes possible now that the space shuttle Discovery has carried the Hubble Space Telescope into the sky to see what no one has seen before.
``Precisely one day after lifting off from Launch Pad 39B at Kennedy Space Center, the Hubble Space Telescope is ready to fly on its own,'' Mission Control's Jeffrey Carr said.
Hubble will allow astronomers to study stars and galaxies so distant their light has taken 14 billion years to reach Earth.
It is named for the late astronomer Edwin P. Hubble, whose discovery during the 1920s that the universe is expanding gave rise to the Big Bang theory that the universe was created by a tremendous explosion 10 billion to 20 billion years ago .
``The telescope really looked great as we flew away from it, and we sure hope it does good work,'' Discovery commander Loren J. Shriver said later.
Ground controllers at the Goddard Space Flight Center finally made contact today with the two main antennas on the $1.5 billion Hubble Space Telescope after trying for more than six hours to lock on.
The lens cover on the Hubble Space Telescope opened today after a morning of worrisome problems, and Mission Control told the Discovery astronauts they no longer are needed to rescue the $1.5 billion instrument.
``You've been released from Hubble support; it's on its own,'' Mission Control told the astronauts when the aluminum aperture door opened.
Landing would have been delayed a day if astronauts Bruce McCandless and Kathryn Sullivan had had to perform a space walk to crank open the telescope's lens cover, or aperture door.
The shuttle trailed 50 miles behind Hubble when the aperture door opened 380 miles above Earth, but passed 3.7 miles beneath the telescope later in the day.
From its orbit high above Earth's distorting atmosphere, the telescope will enable astronomers over its 15-year working lifetime to look back 14 billion years and possibly determine the age of the universe.
The telescope's big eye has remained open, but Hubble had been in a ``safe mode'' with all motion stopped because of earlier problems in linking the high-speed dish antennas with a relay satellite.
``The song was selected in honor of Hubble Space Telescope, which is now open for business,'' said Mission Control commentator James Hartsfield.