Television watchers of the 19th annual New York City Marathon followed the step-by-step progress Sunday of the leaders, but many spectators on the course scanned the thousands of runners for a familar face.
The winner in the field of 23,478 _ largest ever for a marathon _ was Steve Jones of Wales, who finished in 2 hours, 8 minutes and 20 seconds, only seven seconds off the course record.
"We're not runners, never have been.
RUNNING; ADVERTISING; TELEVISION BROADCASTS; LOS ANGELES MARATHON; MARATHONS; SPONSORS; MARKETING; LOS ANGELES TIMES; MERCEDES BENZ OF NORTH AMERICA INC
Among those chasing them will be John Treacy, the 1984 Olympic silver medalist and the third-place finisher in Boston in 1988 and 1989; Geoff Smith, the Boston winner in 1984-85; Ed Eyestone, the top-ranked U.S. marathoner; Salvador Garcia, the runner-up to Wakiihuri in last year's New York City Marathon; and Rolando Vera, who finished third in his marathon debut in Boston in 1990.
Panfil won the London Marathon in 2:26:31, her personal best, and won the New York City Marathon in 1990 .
Copyright 1991, San Jose Mercury News
With those numbers in mind, the car maker has become a sponsor of three marathons -- in New York, Boston and Los Angeles -- as well as other running races.
Last year, its first time out, the Los Angeles race attracted nearly 11,000 runners -- four times the number forecast and enough to make it the third -- largest race in the U.S.
After competitive bidding, it awarded an eight-year contract to Los Angeles Marathon Inc. to put on the race.
While some runners will be paid to appear, this year's field, like last year's, lacks some of the superstars who race in Boston, New York and London.
Mr. Burke says the Australian runner Rob de Castella made it known through his agent that he wouldn't run any marathons in the spring but, for $25,000, he'd be happy to say the Los Angeles event was tempting.
This year's race may challenge New York and London as the largest marathon ever run.
Mr. Lebow, organizer of the New York event, says next year's Los Angeles Marathon will surpass that number.
Mr. Kelley is in training for the Boston Marathon -- his 60th Boston Marathon.
Bill Rodgers, a four-time Boston Marathon winner who plans to run again this year, marvels at Mr.
A two-time winner in Boston (1935 and 1945) and runner-up seven times, Mr. Kelley is to be the oldest competitor in the race this year -- as he has been for 15 years.
Of course, Mr. Kelley -- not to be confused with the other John Kelley, who won the Boston Marathon in 1957 -- isn't the runner he was in 1935 when he won the race, in 2 hours, 32 minutes, 7 seconds.