John Lennon spent much of a three-year span tucked away in his room, sleeping or sitting in a lotus position with his head enveloped in tobacco or marijuana smoke, according to a biography of the slain Beatle.
An excerpt from the book, ``The Lives of John Lennon'' by journalist and biographer Albert Goldman, appearing in the Aug. 15 issue of People magazine, discloses a sometimes unflattering portrait of both Lennon and his second wife, Yoko Ono.
Apart from a few hours in the morning and evening, including time spent with his son, Sean, ``Lennon is back here in his room, alone and silent''.
Goldman spent more than six years researching the book, interviewing 1,200 friends, relatives and associates of Lennon, who was murdered eight years ago in New York .
A biography that portrays John Lennon as a drug-addled, anorexic bisexual who raged his way from Liverpool to New York City is ``totally fiction,'' Yoko Ono said in a national radio broadcast.
It's a very dramatically described something, but it's not about John,'' Ono said Wednesday night in her first broadcast comments on the book by Albert Goldman.
The usually reclusive Ono agreed to the interview to counter Goldman's ``The Lives of John Lennon,'' which presents the ex-Beatle as a violent, drug-addicted drunk who wanted to dump his wife.
``These people in this book are not us.
They hear Albert Goldman, John Lennon, homosexuality _ bang, let him have it! I resent people commenting on a book they haven't read, including Yoko,'' the author said.
_ John Lennon .
Watching the new movie, ``Imagine: John Lennon,'' was very painful for the late Beatle's wife, Yoko Ono.
``I think this is really the definitive documentary of John Lennon's life,'' Ono said in an interview.
Lennon's half sister, Julia Baird, also has written a new book, ``John Lennon, My Brother''.
Also shown the door was Albert Goldman, whose sordid biography, ``The Lives of John Lennon,'' hit bookstores about the same time as Baird's book.
Lennon and his wife, Yoko Ono, were returning to their apartment in New York's Dakota apartment building after a recording session on Dec. 8, 1980, when Lennon was shot to death by Mark David Chapman, a deranged fan to whom Lennon had given his autograph only hours before.
Marketing an icon; Since his death in 1980, Ono has steadily kept Lennon products coming out: the albums "Milk and Honey" and "Menlove Avenue" and the 4-CD boxed set "The John Lennon Collection"; the book "Skywriting by Word of Mouth," a collection of Lennon's unpublished writings; Lennon's art, which Ono says was his main interest in his final years; and Lennon-inspired merchandise, such as a line of John Lennon eyeglasses.
I think that's natural."; Many of the books that have been written about Lennon and the Beatles, especially Albert Goldman's loathing portrait of Lennon, have been painful to Ono.
Lennon's every move.