The earthquake that devastated Iran early Thursday took tens of thousands of lives because people were asleep in fragile homes built on flood plains, an earthquake expert said.
``Most casualties from earthquakes are caused by something falling on top of you,'' said Russ Needham, a geophysist with the U.S.
The quake hit at 12:30 a.m. in Iran, when most of the people were in their homes, Needham said Thursday in a telephone interview from Golden, Colo.
At least 25,000 people died and thousands were injured in the quake, which demolished scores of villages and buried thousands of people in the rubble of their homes, Iranian officials said.
``It's very similar to what we had in Armenia,'' he said of the Dec. 7, 1988, earthquake that killed about 25,000 people.
The Armenian quake was measured at 6.9 on the Richter scale, but Thursday's earthquake shook the earth with a magnitude of 7.7.
Like Thursday's earthquake in Iran, the Dec. 7, 1988, earthquake in Armenia killed about 25,000 people.
Iran has told the United Nations that the death toll is at least 36,000, but Gobadi said his organization has received estimates closer to 100,000.
The State Department said Friday that Iran was willing to accept earthquake relief from the American Red Cross and other U.S. humanitarian organizations .
Countries worldwide, both friendly and hostile to Tehran's Islamic government, sent supplies, medical personnel and condolences to Iran, where about 40,000 people have died in an earthquake.
Embassy in Tehran, said it would welcome relief from the American Red Cross and other U.S. humanitarian groups.
China's Red Cross said it was sending $106,000 worth of relief supplies, state-run television said Saturday.
Iran said today that it would welcome relief offered by its bitter enemy, the United States, to help victims of the earthquake that has killed as many as 35,000 people, the State Department said in Washington .
Iranian authorities have told United Nations officials that about 35,000 people died in the earthquake .
Fund for the Iran Earthquake .
Trucks carried aid into earthquake-stricken Iran on Saturday from Soviet Azerbaijan, which observed a day of mourning for victims, the official Tass news agency said .
The United States on Friday sent $300,000 worth of relief supplies through the American Red Cross and is planning more aid, State Department officials said .
Rushdie donated the money to the Independent Iranian Earthquake Appeal, organized by the Independent newspaper to help survivors of the earthquake that Iranian officials said left at least 50,000 people dead .