Chinese troops stormed Tiananmen Square early Sunday, shooting and beating their way through crowds of pro-democracy protesters in clashes that witnesses and doctors said killed at least 32 people.
At 4:30 a.m., armored personnel carriers entered the square and troops began moving slowly toward several thousand students clustered around a monument to revolutionary heroes in the center.
Thousands fled from the square, where hundreds of thousands of people had gathered to support students in the third week of a sit-in.
Here is a look at key events in the student pro-democracy movement that led to Sunday's assault by soldiers on protesters in Tiananmen Square: April 15 _ Former Communist Party chief Hu Yaobang dies.
Long live democracy''! April 27 _ More than 150,000 students, with wide support from people on the street, surge past police lines and fill Tiananmen Square, chanting slogans for democracy and freedom.
May 4 _ About 100,000 students and supporters march on Tiananmen Square to celebrate the 70th anniversary of China's first student movement.
May 13 _ About 2,000 students begin a hunger strike in Tiananmen Square.
May 14 _ Thousands flock to the square to back the students.
May 15 _ The government deadline for students to leave the square passes.
Defying martial law, hundreds of thousands of people remain in the square or block intersections to prevent troops from reaching it.
May 22 _ Hundreds of thousands of people again block major roads and senior military leaders say they are resisting orders to order their troops on the protesters.
May 27 _ Beijing student leaders propose students end their occupation of Tiananmen Square.
May 30 _ Students unveil their ``Goddess of Democracy,'' a replica of the Statue of Liberty, on the square.
June 1 _ The Beijing Municipal Government warns foreign journalists that under martial law they must receive approval for all press coverage.
June 3-4 _ Tens of thousands of troops make several attempts to move on the square but are driven back by crowds of hundreds of thousands of people supporting the students.
Here is a chronology of events that began Saturday in Tiananmen Square: 1 a.m. Saturday (12 noon EDT Friday) _ Tens of thousands of troops enter Beijing from the east marching toward Tiananmen Square, China's symbolic political heart.
12 noon _ Two truckloads of People's Armed Police attack crowds outside Beijing Hotel east of the square and up to 30 people injured.
April 18 _ Thousands of students march in Beijing and Shanghai, expressing dissatisfaction with the government and shouting ``Long live Hu Yaobang!