A 3-year campaign that has succeeded in getting Northeastern University to award an honorary degree to jailed South African nationalist leader Nelson Mandela has raised objections from some faculty and students.
Before he was imprisoned, said third-year law student Sarah Ottinger, ``Nelson Mandela was an ...
South Africa's white-minority government says it will free Mandela only if he renounces the use of violence by forces seeking political power for blacks in the country.
A representative of the African National Congress said Saturday the South African government may release black nationalist leader Nelson Mandela as early as Tuesday.
``There are very strong rumors in South Africa today that on Nov. 15 Nelson Mandela will be released,'' said Yusef Saloojee, chief representative in Canada for the ANC, which is fighting to end white-minority rule in South Africa.
Mandela the 70-year-old leader of the ANC jailed 27 years ago, was sentenced to life in prison for conspiring to overthrow the South African government.
A South African government source last week indicated recent rumors of Mandela's impending release were orchestrated by members of the anti-apartheid movement to pressure the government into taking some action.
And a prominent anti-apatheid activist in South Africa said there has been ``no indication (Mandela) would be released today or in the near future''.
Four imprisoned African National Congress leaders, convicted in 1964 with Nelson Mandela, were allowed to visit their ANC colleague at his isolated prison house, an activist said today.
Evelyn Ntoko Mase, the cousin of ANC leader Walter Sisulu who has been imprisoned with Mandela, married Nelson Mandela in 1944.
Mrs. Mandela-Amuah said of her father's possible release, ``I always firmly believe that you can't predict what the South African government will do.''
Mayor David Dinkins warned Jewish groups against protesting the visit of anti-apartheid leader Nelson Mandela to New York City, saying the protests might insult the black community, a newspaper said today.
Mandela, leader of the African National Congress, will visit eight cities from June 20 to July 1.
African National Congress officials said the dead child and her parents were distant cousins of Nelson Mandela.
The ANC officials said Nelson Mandela was close to the Monde Mandela family.
From behind bars, Nelson Mandela has dominated the fight for black rights in South Africa.
MANDELA, NELSON R; POLITICAL PRISONERS -- SOUTH AFRICA; PRISONER RELEASES; APARTHEID; BLACKS -- SOUTH AFRICA; RACIAL RELATIONS -- SOUTH AFRICA; SOUTH AFRICA -- GOVERNMENT; GOVERNMENT REFORM; AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS; DE KLERK, FREDERIK W
The radicals in the ANC may well use the trial and conviction of Mrs. Mandela to arouse members against Nelson Mandela's policy of peace and negotiation.