Here are some quotes on Iraq's invasion of Kuwait:
``The Iraqi government firmly believes and states that Iraq is pursuing no goal or objective and wishes only cordial relations with Kuwait.
THE INVASION: Iraq's troops, led by about 350 tanks, crossed the border at dawn Thursday, and seized the Kuwaiti palace and government buildings 40 miles away.
Kuwait, an oil-rich city-state, has 1.9 million residents _ 60 percent foreigners _ and an army of 20,300 soldiers.
CAUSE OF CONFLICT: President Saddam Hussein of Iraq accused Kuwait of stealing oil from its territory and forcing down oil prices through overproduction.
Kuwait's U.S. ambassador said the nation had asked for American military intervention.
Here is a brief chronology in the dispute between Iraq and Kuwait over oil production and their common border.
July 17 _ Iraqi President Saddam Hussein accuses Kuwait and the United Arab Emirates of flooding the oil market and driving prices down, and that the move cost Iraq $14 billion in lost oil revenue.
July 18 _ Iraq accuses Kuwait of stealing $2.4 billion worth of oil from wells along the disputed border with Iraq and of seeking to wreck Iraq's economy by overproducing oil and thus pushing down prices.
July 20 _ Kuwaiti officials suggest Iraq's sudden outburst of belligerence is aimed at getting its creditors _ including Kuwait _ to write off billions of dollars in debts from the 1980-88 Iran-Iraq war.
July 25 _ The Iraqi government in Baghdad says that it will not be intimidated by U.S. pressure in its oil dispute with neighboring Kuwait, and Saddams summons the U.S. ambassador for talks.
July 31 _ Kuwaiti and Iraqi delegations meet in Jiddah, Saudi Arabia, to negotiate the oil and border dispute.
Thousands of Westerners have been stranded in Kuwait and Iraq since Iraq invaded Kuwait on Thursday.
Defense Department announces that Navy warships and aircraft are holding a "short-notice exercise" in the Persian Gulf with the United Arab Emirates, about 600 miles southeast of the Kuwait-Iraqi border.
Diplomats say Iraq has 100,000 troops on Kuwait's border; Kuwait army numbers about 20,000 troops .
IRAQ -- FOREIGN RELATIONS -- KUWAIT; MILITARY CONFRONTATIONS; OIL INDUSTRY -- KUWAIT; OIL INDUSTRY -- IRAQ; UNITED STATES -- FOREIGN RELATIONS -- IRAQ; IRAQ -- BORDERS -- KUWAIT
One of the reasons Iraq gave for invading Kuwait was Kuwaiti reluctance to slow its flow of oil and push oil prices higher, but it was Iraqi oil that had slowed today .
The United States has warned Iraq against any attack on Saudi Arabia, and President Bush has said all options are open for the United States .