Kuwaiti and Iraqi negotiators embraced warmly Tuesday as they began talks on their oil and border dispute, sources said.
Diplomats reported that Iraq had massed 100,000 troops on Kuwait's border.
Gulf-based diplomatic sources said the Iraqi force, triple the number earlier reported, included about 300 Soviet-made tanks, and dwarfed the entire Kuwaiti army of 20,000 troops.
The diplomats, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the troops have been concentrated along the border since last week, when Iraq began threatening Kuwait.
Iraq accused the small Persian Gulf state of stealing oil from a disputed border region and forcing oil prices to drop.
The Iraq-Kuwait crisis broke out on July 17 when Iraqi President Saddam Hussein accused Kuwait and the United Arab Emirates of driving down oil prices by exceeding quotas set for them by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries.
for Kuwait ...
Security Council today swiftly condemned Iraq's invasion of Kuwait, demanding an unconditional withdrawal of Iraqi troops and calling for immediate negotiations between the countries.
Neither Kuwait nor Iraq is on the 15-member council.
Two weeks ago, President Saddam Hussein of Iraq threatened military action with Kuwait over its violation of OPEC oil production ceilings and a disputed border oil field.
Kuwait's U.S. ambassador said the Iraqis occupied all government buildings in the capital and were moving south toward the country's oil facilities.
The Iraqi government of President Saddam Hussein claimed it invaded at the request of revolutionaries who had already staged a coup and established ``The Provisional Government of Free Kuwait''.
Oil executives said Saudi Arabia has not and will not take the most potent action possible against Iraq _ closing the pipeline that carries Iraqi oil for export across Saudi Arabia to the Red Sea.
Saudi Arabia was also one of the 14 members of the 21-member Arab League that condemned the invasion in the same terms as the Gulf Cooperation Council.
Saudi Arabia has been subdued in its reaction to Iraq's invasion of Kuwait, which places Iraqi forces near the oil-rich kingdom's border.
The executives said the Saudis believe this would give Iraq's belligerent president, Saddam Hussein, an excuse to attack and occupy Saudi oil fields 150 miles south of Kuwait, giving Iraq control of more oil than any other country in the world.
In a statement carried by the Iraqi News Agency on Sunday, the Iraqi-installed military government of Kuwait warned other nations not to take ``punishing measures'' against it or Iraq.
The United States has warned Iraq against any attack on Saudi Arabia, and President Bush has said all options are open for the United States .